Although our form is corporate, our attitude is partnership. Charlie Munger and I think of our
shareholders as owner-partners, and of ourselves as managing partners. (Because of the size of our
shareholdings we are also, for better or worse, controlling partners.)  We do not view the company
itself as the ultimate owner of our business assets but instead view the company as a conduit through
which our shareholders own the assets.
Charlie and I hope that you do not think of yourself as merely owning a piece of paper whose price
wiggles around daily and that is a candidate for sale when some economic or political event makes
you nervous. We hope you instead visualize yourself as a part owner of a business that you expect
to stay with indefinitely, much as you might if you owned a farm or apartment house in partnership
with members of your family. For our part, we do not view Berkshire shareholders as faceless
members of an ever-shifting crowd, but rather as co-venturers who have entrusted their funds to us
for what may well turn out to be the remainder of their lives.
The evidence suggests that most Berkshire shareholders have indeed embraced this long-term
partnership concept. The annual percentage turnover in Berkshire's shares is a small fraction of that
occurring in the stocks of other major American corporations, even when the shares I own are
excluded from the calculation.
In effect, our shareholders behave in respect to their Berkshire stock much as Berkshire itself
behaves in respect to companies in which it has an investment. As owners of, say, Coca-Cola or
Gillette shares, we think of Berkshire as being a non-managing partner in two extraordinary
businesses, in which we measure our success by the long-term progress of the companies rather than
by the month-to-month movements of their stocks. In fact, we would not care in the least if several
years went by in which there was no trading, or quotation of prices, in the stocks of those
companies. If we have good long-term expectations, short-term price changes are meaningless for
us except to the extent they offer us an opportunity to increase our ownership at an attractive price.
*Copyright © 1996 By Warren E. Buffett
All Rights Reserved

57
2.
In line with Berkshire's owner-orientation, most of our directors have a major portion of their net
worth invested in the company. We eat our own cooking.
Charlie's family has 90% or more of its net worth in Berkshire shares; my wife, Susie, and I have
more than 99%. In addition, many of my relatives — my sisters and cousins, for example — keep
a huge portion of their net worth in Berkshire stock.
Charlie and I feel totally comfortable with this eggs-in-one-basket situation because Berkshire itself
owns a wide variety of truly extraordinary businesses. Indeed, we believe that Berkshire is close
to being unique in the quality and diversity of the businesses in which it owns either a controlling
interest or a minority interest of significance.
Charlie and I cannot promise you results. But we can guarantee that your financial fortunes will
move in lockstep with ours for whatever period of time you elect to be our partner. We have no
interest in large salaries or options or other means of gaining an "edge" over you. We want to make
money only when our partners do and in exactly the same proportion. Moreover, when I do
something dumb, I want you to be able to derive some solace from the fact that my financial
suffering is proportional to yours.
3.
Our long-term economic goal (subject to some qualifications mentioned later) is to maximize
Berkshire's average annual rate of gain in intrinsic business value on a per-share basis. We do not
measure the economic significance or performance of Berkshire by its size; we measure by per-share
progress. We are certain that the rate of per-share progress will diminish in the future — a greatly
enlarged capital base will see to that. But we will be disappointed if our rate does not exceed that
of the average large American corporation.
Since that was written at yearend 1983, our intrinsic value (a topic I'll discuss a bit later) has
increased at an annual rate of more than 25%, a pace that has definitely surprised both Charlie and
me. Nevertheless the principle just stated remains valid:  Operating with large amounts of capital
as we do today, we cannot come close to performing as well as we once did with much smaller
sums. The best rate of gain in intrinsic value we can even hope for is an average of 15% per annum,
and we may well fall far short of that target. Indeed, we think very few large businesses have a
chance of compounding intrinsic value at 15% per annum over an extended period of time. So it
may be that we will end up meeting our stated goal — being above average — with gains that fall
significantly short of 15%.
4.
Our preference would be to reach our goal by directly owning a diversified group of businesses that
generate cash and consistently earn above-average returns on capital. Our second choice is to own
parts of similar businesses, attained primarily through purchases of marketable common stocks by
our insurance subsidiaries. The price and availability of businesses and the need for insurance
capital determine any given year's capital allocation.
As has usually been the case, it is easier today to buy small pieces of outstanding businesses via the
stock market than to buy similar businesses in their entirety on a negotiated basis. Nevertheless, we
continue to prefer the 100% purchase, and in some years we get lucky:  In the last three years in
fact, we made seven acquisitions. Though there will be dry years also, we expect to make a number
of acquisitions in the decades to come, and our hope is that they will be large. If these purchases
approach the quality of those we have made in the past, Berkshire will be well served.
The challenge for us is to generate ideas as rapidly as we generate cash. In this respect, a depressed
stock market is likely to present us with significant advantages. For one thing, it tends to reduce the
prices at which entire companies become available for purchase. Second, a depressed market makes
it easier for our insurance companies to buy small pieces of wonderful businesses — including
additional pieces of businesses we already own — at attractive prices. And third, some of those same
wonderful businesses, such as Coca-Cola, are consistent buyers of their own shares, which means
that they, and we, gain from the cheaper prices at which they can buy.

58
Overall, Berkshire and its long-term shareholders benefit from a sinking stock market much as a
regular purchaser of food benefits from declining food prices. So when the market plummets — as
it will from time to time — neither panic nor mourn. It's good news for Berkshire.
5.
Because of our two-pronged approach to business ownership and because of the limitations of
conventional accounting, consolidated reported earnings may reveal relatively little about our true
economic performance. Charlie and I, both as owners and managers, virtually ignore such
consolidated numbers. However, we will also report to you the earnings of each major business we
control, numbers we consider of great importance. These figures, along with other information we
will supply about the individual businesses, should generally aid you in making judgments about
them.
To state things simply, we try to give you in the annual report the numbers and other information
that really matter. Charlie and I pay a great deal of attention to how well our businesses are doing,
and we also work to understand the environment in which each business is operating. For example,
is one of our businesses enjoying an industry tailwind or is it facing a headwind?  Charlie and I need
to know exactly which situation prevails and to adjust our expectations accordingly. We will also
pass along our conclusions to you.
Over time, practically all of our businesses have exceeded our expectations. But occasionally we
have disappointments, and we will try to be as candid in informing you about those as we are in
describing the happier experiences. When we use unconventional measures to chart our progress
— for instance, you will be reading in our annual reports about insurance "float" — we will try to
explain these concepts and why we regard them as important. In other words, we believe in telling
you how we think so that you can evaluate not only Berkshire's businesses but also assess our
approach to management and capital allocation.
6.
Accounting consequences do not influence our operating or capital-allocation decisions. When
acquisition costs are similar, we much prefer to purchase $2 of earnings that is not reportable by
us under standard accounting principles than to purchase $1 of earnings that is reportable. This is
precisely the choice that often faces us since entire businesses (whose earnings will be fully
reportable) frequently sell for double the pro-rata price of small portions (whose earnings will be
largely unreportable). In aggregate and over time, we expect the unreported earnings to be fully
reflected in our intrinsic business value through capital gains.
We attempt to offset the shortcomings of conventional accounting by regularly reporting "look-
through" earnings (though, for special and nonrecurring reasons, we occasionally omit them).  The
look-through numbers include Berkshire's own reported operating earnings, excluding capital gains
and purchase-accounting adjustments (an explanation of which occurs later in this message) plus
Berkshire's share of the undistributed earnings of our major investees — amounts that are not
included in Berkshire's figures under conventional accounting. From these undistributed earnings
of our investees we subtract the tax we would have owed had the earnings been paid to us as
dividends. We also exclude capital gains, purchase-accounting adjustments and extraordinary
charges or credits from the investee numbers.
We have found over time that the undistributed earnings of our investees, in aggregate, have been
fully as beneficial to Berkshire as if they had been distributed to us (and therefore had been included
in the earnings we officially report). This pleasant result has occurred because most of our investees
are engaged in truly outstanding businesses that can often employ incremental capital to great
advantage, either by putting it to work in their businesses or by repurchasing their shares.
Obviously, every capital decision that our investees have made has not benefitted us as shareholders,
but overall we have garnered far more than a dollar of value for each dollar they have retained. We
consequently regard look-through earnings as realistically portraying our yearly gain from
operations.

59
In 1992, our look-through earnings were $604 million, and in that same year we set a goal of raising
them by an average of 15% per annum to $1.8 billion in the year 2000. Since that time, however,
we have issued additional shares — including a significant number in the 1998 merger with General
Re — so that we now need look-through earnings of $2.4 billion in 2000 to match the per-share goal
we originally were shooting for. This is a target we still hope to hit.
7.
We use debt sparingly and, when we do borrow, we attempt to structure our loans on a long-term
fixed-rate basis. We will reject interesting opportunities rather than over-leverage our balance
sheet. This conservatism has penalized our results but it is the only behavior that leaves us
comfortable, considering our fiduciary obligations to policyholders, lenders and the many equity
holders who have committed unusually large portions of their net worth to our care. (As one of the
Indianapolis "500" winners said:  "To finish first, you must first finish.")
The financial calculus that Charlie and I employ would never permit our trading a good night's sleep
for a shot at a few extra percentage points of return. I've never believed in risking what my family
and friends have and need in order to pursue what they don't have and don't need.
Besides, Berkshire has access to two low-cost, non-perilous sources of leverage that allow us to
safely own far more assets than our equity capital alone would permit:  deferred taxes and "float,"
the funds of others that our insurance business holds because it receives premiums before needing
to pay out losses. Both of these funding sources have grown rapidly and now total about $32 billion.
Better yet, this funding to date has been cost-free. Deferred tax liabilities bear no interest. And as
long as we can break even in our insurance underwriting — which we have done, on the average,
during our 32 years in the business — the cost of the float developed from that operation is zero.
Neither item, of course, is equity; these are real liabilities. But they are liabilities without covenants
or due dates attached to them. In effect, they give us the benefit of debt — an ability to have more
assets working for us — but saddle us with none of its drawbacks.
Of course, there is no guarantee that we can obtain our float in the future at no cost. But we feel
our chances of attaining that goal are as good as those of anyone in the insurance business. Not only
have we reached the goal in the past (despite a number of important mistakes by your Chairman),
our 1996 acquisition of GEICO, materially improved our prospects for getting there in the future.
8.
A managerial "wish list" will not be filled at shareholder expense. We will not diversify by
purchasing entire businesses at control prices that ignore long-term economic consequences to our
shareholders. We will only do with your money what we would do with our own, weighing fully the
values you can obtain by diversifying your own portfolios through direct purchases in the stock
market.
Charlie and I are interested only in acquisitions that we believe will raise the per-share intrinsic
value of Berkshire's stock. The size of our paychecks or our offices will never be related to the size
of Berkshire's balance sheet. 
9.
We feel noble intentions should be checked periodically against results. We test the wisdom of
retaining earnings by assessing whether retention, over time, delivers shareholders at least $1 of
market value for each $1 retained. To date, this test has been met. We will continue to apply it on
a five-year rolling basis. As our net worth grows, it is more difficult to use retained earnings wisely.
We continue to pass the test, but the challenges of doing so have grown more difficult. If we reach
the point that we can't create extra value by retaining earnings, we will pay them out and let our
shareholders deploy the funds.

60
10.
We will issue common stock only when we receive as much in business value as we give. This rule
applies to all forms of issuance — not only mergers or public stock offerings, but stock-for-debt
swaps, stock options, and convertible securities as well. We will not sell small portions of your
company — and that is what the issuance of shares amounts to — on a basis inconsistent with the
value of the entire enterprise.
When we sold the Class B shares in 1996, we stated that Berkshire stock was not undervalued —
and some people found that shocking. That reaction was not well-founded. Shock should have
registered instead had we issued shares when our stock was undervalued. Managements that say or
imply during a public offering that their stock is undervalued are usually being economical with the
truth or uneconomical with their existing shareholders' money:  Owners unfairly lose if their
managers deliberately sell assets for 80¢ that in fact are worth $1. We didn't commit that kind of
crime in our offering of Class B shares and we never will.  (We did not, however, say at the time
of the sale that our stock was overvalued, though many media have reported that we did.)
11.
You should be fully aware of one attitude Charlie and I share that hurts our financial performance:
Regardless of price, we have no interest at all in selling any good businesses that Berkshire owns.
We are also very reluctant to sell sub-par businesses as long as we expect them to generate at least
some cash and as long as we feel good about their managers and labor relations. We hope not to
repeat the capital-allocation mistakes that led us into such sub-par businesses. And we react with
great caution to suggestions that our poor businesses can be restored to satisfactory profitability
by major capital expenditures. (The projections will be dazzling and the advocates sincere, but, in
the end, major additional investment in a terrible industry usually is about as rewarding as
struggling in quicksand.)  Nevertheless, gin rummy managerial behavior (discard your least
promising business at each turn) is not our style. We would rather have our overall results penalized
a bit than engage in that kind of behavior.
We continue to avoid gin rummy behavior. True, we closed our textile business in the mid-1980's
after 20 years of struggling with it, but only because we felt it was doomed to run never-ending
operating losses. We have not, however, given thought to selling operations that would command
very fancy prices nor have we dumped our laggards, though we focus hard on curing the problems
that cause them to lag.
12.
We will be candid in our reporting to you, emphasizing the pluses and minuses important in
appraising business value. Our guideline is to tell you the business facts that we would want to know
if our positions were reversed. We owe you no less. Moreover, as a company with a major
communications business, it would be inexcusable for us to apply lesser standards of accuracy,
balance and incisiveness when reporting on ourselves than we would expect our news people to
apply when reporting on others. We also believe candor benefits us as managers:  The CEO who
misleads others in public may eventually mislead himself in private.
At Berkshire you will find no "big bath" accounting maneuvers or restructurings nor any
"smoothing" of quarterly or annual results. We will always tell you how many strokes we have
taken on each hole and never play around with the scorecard. When the numbers are a very rough
"guesstimate," as they necessarily must be in insurance reserving, we will try to be both consistent
and conservative in our approach.
We will be communicating with you in several ways. Through the annual report, I try to give all
shareholders as much value-defining information as can be conveyed in a document kept to
reasonable length. We also try to convey a liberal quantity of condensed but important information
in our quarterly reports, though I don't write those (one recital a year is enough). Still another
important occasion for communication is our Annual Meeting, at which Charlie and I are delighted
to spend five hours or more answering questions about Berkshire. But there is one way we can't
communicate:  on a one-on-one basis. That isn't feasible given Berkshire's many thousands of
owners.

61
In all of our communications, we try to make sure that no single shareholder gets an edge:  We do
not follow the usual practice of giving earnings "guidance" or other information of value to analysts
or large shareholders. Our goal is to have all of our owners updated at the same time.
13.
Despite our policy of candor, we will discuss our activities in marketable securities only to the
extent legally required. Good investment ideas are rare, valuable and subject to competitive
appropriation just as good product or business acquisition ideas are. Therefore we normally will
not talk about our investment ideas. This ban extends even to securities we have sold (because we
may purchase them again) and to stocks we are incorrectly rumored to be buying. If we deny those
reports but say "no comment" on other occasions, the no-comments become confirmation.
Though we continue to be unwilling to talk about specific stocks, we freely discuss our business and
investment philosophy. I benefitted enormously from the intellectual generosity of Ben Graham, the
greatest teacher in the history of finance, and I believe it appropriate to pass along what I learned
from him, even if that creates new and able investment competitors for Berkshire just as Ben's
teachings did for him.
AN ADDED PRINCIPLE
To the extent possible, we would like each Berkshire shareholder to record a gain or loss in market
value during his period of ownership that is proportional to the gain or loss in per-share intrinsic
value recorded by the company during that holding period. For this to come about, the relationship
between the intrinsic value and the market price of a Berkshire share would need to remain
constant, and by our preferences at 1-to-1. As that implies, we would rather see Berkshire's stock
price at a fair level than a high level. Obviously, Charlie and I can't control Berkshire's price. But
by our policies and communications, we can encourage informed, rational behavior by owners that,
in turn, will tend to produce a stock price that is also rational. Our it's-as-bad-to-be-overvalued-as-
to-be-undervalued approach may disappoint some shareholders. We believe, however, that it affords
Berkshire the best prospect of attracting long-term investors who seek to profit from the progress
of the company rather than from the investment mistakes of their partners.
INTRINSIC VALUE
Now let's focus on two terms that I mentioned earlier and that you will encounter in future annual reports.
Let's start with intrinsic value, an all-important concept that offers the only logical approach to evaluating
the relative attractiveness of investments and businesses. Intrinsic value can be defined simply:  It is the discounted
value of the cash that can be taken out of a business during its remaining life.
The calculation of intrinsic value, though, is not so simple. As our definition suggests, intrinsic value is an
estimate rather than a precise figure, and it is additionally an estimate that must be changed if interest rates move or
forecasts of future cash flows are revised. Two people looking at the same set of facts, moreover — and this would
apply even to Charlie and me — will almost inevitably come up with at least slightly different intrinsic value figures.
That is one reason we never give you our estimates of intrinsic value. What our annual reports do supply, though, are
the facts that we ourselves use to calculate this value.
Meanwhile, we regularly report our per-share book value, an easily calculable number, though one of limited
use. The limitations do not arise from our holdings of marketable securities, which are carried on our books at their
current prices. Rather the inadequacies of book value have to do with the companies we control, whose values as
stated on our books may be far different from their intrinsic values.

62
The disparity can go in either direction. For example, in 1964 we could state with certitude that Berkshire's
per-share book value was $19.46. However, that figure considerably overstated the company's intrinsic value, since
all of the company's resources were tied up in a sub-profitable textile business. Our textile assets had neither going-
concern nor liquidation values equal to their carrying values. Today, however, Berkshire's situation is reversed:  Now,
our book value far understates Berkshire's intrinsic value, a point true because many of the businesses we control are
worth much more than their carrying value.
Inadequate though they are in telling the story, we give you Berkshire's book-value figures because they today
serve as a rough, albeit significantly understated, tracking measure for Berkshire's intrinsic value. In other words,
the percentage change in book value in any given year is likely to be reasonably close to that year's change in intrinsic
value.
You can gain some insight into the differences between book value and intrinsic value by looking at one form
of investment, a college education. Think of the education's cost as its "book value."  If this cost is to be accurate,
it should include the earnings that were foregone by the student because he chose college rather than a job.
For this exercise, we will ignore the important non-economic benefits of an education and focus strictly on
its economic value. First, we must estimate the earnings that the graduate will receive over his lifetime and subtract
from that figure an estimate of what he would have earned had he lacked his education. That gives us an excess
earnings figure, which must then be discounted, at an appropriate interest rate, back to graduation day. The dollar
result equals the intrinsic economic value of the education.
Some graduates will find that the book value of their education exceeds its intrinsic value, which means that
whoever paid for the education didn't get his money's worth. In other cases, the intrinsic value of an education will
far exceed its book value, a result that proves capital was wisely deployed. In all cases, what is clear is that book value
is meaningless as an indicator of intrinsic value.
PURCHASE-ACCOUNTING ADJUSTMENTS
Next: spinach time. I know that a discussion of accounting technicalities turns off many readers, so let me
assure you that a full and happy life can still be yours if you decide to skip this section.
Our 1996 acquisition of GEICO, however, means that purchase-accounting adjustments of about $40 million
are charged against our annual earnings as recorded under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  Our
General Re acquisition will produce an annual charge many times this number, but we don’t have final figures at this
time.  So the magnitude of these charges makes them a subject of importance to Berkshire. In our annual reports,
therefore, we will sometimes talk of earnings that we will describe as "before purchase-accounting adjustments."  The
discussion that follows will tell you why we think earnings of that description have far more economic meaning than
the earnings produced by GAAP.
When Berkshire buys a business for a premium over the GAAP net worth of the acquiree — as will usually
be the case, since most companies we'd want to buy don't come at a discount — that premium has to be entered on
the asset side of our balance sheet. There are loads of rules about just how a company should record the premium.
But to simplify this discussion, we will focus on "Goodwill," the asset item to which almost all of Berkshire's
acquisition premiums have been allocated. For example, when we acquired in 1996 the half of GEICO we didn't
previously own, we recorded goodwill of about $1.6 billion.
GAAP requires goodwill to be amortized — that is, written off — over a period no longer than 40 years.
Therefore, to extinguish our $1.6 billion in GEICO goodwill, we will take annual charges of about $40 million until