

64
On my death, Berkshire's ownership picture will change but not in a disruptive way:  First, only about 1%
of my stock will have to be sold to take care of bequests and taxes; second, the balance of my stock will go to my
wife, Susan, if she survives me, or to a family foundation if she doesn't. In either event, Berkshire will possess a
controlling shareholder guided by the same philosophy and objectives that now set our course.
At that juncture, the Buffett family will not be involved in managing the business, only in picking and
overseeing the managers who do. Just who those managers will be, of course, depends on the date of my death. But
I can anticipate what the management structure will be:  Essentially my job will be split into two parts, with one
executive becoming responsible for investments and another for operations. If the acquisition of new businesses is in
prospect, the two will cooperate in making the decisions needed. Both executives will report to a board of directors
who will be responsive to the controlling shareholder, whose interests will in turn be aligned with yours.
Were we to need the management structure I have just described on an immediate basis, my family and a
few key individuals know who I would pick to fill both posts. Both currently work for Berkshire and are people in
whom I have total confidence.
I will continue to keep my family posted on the succession issue. Since Berkshire stock will make up virtually
my entire estate and will account for a similar portion of the assets of either my wife or the foundation for a
considerable period after my death, you can be sure that I have thought through the succession question carefully. You
can be equally sure that the principles we have employed to date in running Berkshire will continue to guide the
managers who succeed me.
Lest we end on a morbid note, I also want to assure you that I have never felt better. I love running
Berkshire, and if enjoying life promotes longevity, Methuselah's record is in jeopardy.
Warren E. Buffett
Chairman

65
BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS GROUPS
Berkshire's consolidated data is rearranged in the presentations on the
following six pages into four categories, corresponding to the way Mr.
Buffett and Mr. Munger think about Berkshire's businesses. The
presentations may be helpful to readers in making estimates of Berkshire's
intrinsic value.
The presentations in this section do not conform in all respects to generally
accepted accounting principles. Principal departures from GAAP relate to
accounting treatment for assets acquired in business acquisitions, although
students and practitioners of accounting will recognize others.
Opinions of Berkshire's independent auditors were not solicited for this
data. The four-category presentations in no way fell within their
purview.

66
BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
INSURANCE GROUP
Berkshire's insurance businesses are comprised of four operating groups of
subsidiaries.  GEICO Corporation ("GEICO"), currently the sixth largest auto
insurer in the U.S., was merged with another Berkshire subsidiary at the
beginning of 1996. Prior to that date, Berkshire subsidiaries owned approximately
51% of the then outstanding capital stock of GEICO. GEICO, through its
subsidiaries, is a multiple line property and casualty insurer the principal business
of which is writing private passenger automobile insurance.  GEICO's voluntary
auto policy count grew 21% during the twelve months ended December 31, 1998.
At the same time, outstanding underwriting results continued to be generated.
The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Division provides treaty and limited
facultative reinsurance to other property/casualty insurers and reinsurers.
Berkshire is one of the world's leading providers of catastrophe excess of loss
reinsurance. Berkshire's unparalled capital strength has enabled it to offer dollar
coverages of a magnitude far in excess of its competitors.
Berkshire's third group of businesses underwrite miscellaneous forms of direct
insurance. National Indemnity Company and other affiliated entities underwrite
multiple lines of traditional insurance for primarily commercial accounts. The
"Homestate Group" companies underwrite various commercial coverages for risks
in an increasing number of selected states. Cypress Insurance Company provides
workers' compensation insurance to employers in California and other states.
Central States Indemnity Company issues credit insurance distributed through
credit card issuers nationwide and Kansas Bankers Surety Company is an insurer
for primarily small and medium sized banks located in the midwest.
On December 21, 1998, Berkshire completed its acquisition of General Re
Corporation.  General Re is a holding company for global reinsurance and related
risk management operations.  General Re, through its domestic subsidiaries,
General Reinsurance Corporation and National Reinsurance Corporation, is one
of the largest profess