Although our form is corporate, our attitude is partnership. Charlie Munger and I think of our
shareholders as owner-partners, and of ourselves as managing partners. (Because of the size of our
shareholdings we are also, for better or worse, controlling partners.)  We do not view the company
itself as the ultimate owner of our business assets but instead view the company as a conduit through
which our shareholders own the assets.
Charlie and I hope that you do not think of yourself as merely owning a piece of paper whose price
wiggles around daily and that is a candidate for sale when some economic or political event makes
you nervous. We hope you instead visualize yourself as a part owner of a business that you expect
to stay with indefinitely, much as you might if you owned a farm or apartment house in partnership
with members of your family. For our part, we do not view Berkshire shareholders as faceless
members of an ever-shifting crowd, but rather as co-venturers who have entrusted their funds to us
for what may well turn out to be the remainder of their lives.
The evidence suggests that most Berkshire shareholders have indeed embraced this long-term
partnership concept. The annual percentage turnover in Berkshire's shares is a small fraction of that
occurring in the stocks of other major American corporations, even when the shares I own are
excluded from the calculation.
In effect, our shareholders behave in respect to their Berkshire stock much as Berkshire itself
behaves in respect to companies in which it has an investment. As owners of, say, Coca-Cola or
Gillette shares, we think of Berkshire as being a non-managing partner in two extraordinary
businesses, in which we measure our success by the long-term progress of the companies rather than
by the month-to-month movements of their stocks. In fact, we would not care in the least if several
years went by in which there was no trading, or quotation of prices, in the stocks of those
companies. If we have good long-term expectations, short-term price changes are meaningless for
us except to the extent they offer us an opportunity to increase our ownership at an attractive price.
*Copyright © 1996 By Warren E. Buffett
All Rights Reserved

57
2.
In line with Berkshire's owner-orientation, most of our directors have a major portion of their net
worth invested in the company. We eat our own cooking.
Charlie's family has 90% or more of its net worth in Berkshire shares; my wife, Susie, and I have
more than 99%. In addition, many of my relatives — my sisters and cousins, for example — keep
a huge portion of their net worth in Berkshire stock.
Charlie and I feel totally comfortable with this eggs-in-one-basket situation because Berkshire itself
owns a wide variety of truly extraordinary businesses. Indeed, we believe that Berkshire is close
to being unique in the quality and diversity of the businesses in which it owns either a controlling
interest or a minority interest of significance.
Charlie and I cannot promise you results. But we can guarantee that your financial fortunes will
move in lockstep with ours for whatever period of time you elect to be our partner. We have no
interest in large salaries or options or other means of gaining an "edge" over you. We want to make
money only when our partners do and in exactly the same proportion. Moreover, when I do
something dumb, I want you to be able to derive some solace from the fact that my financial
suffering is proportional to yours.
3.
Our long-term economic goal (subject to some qualifications mentioned later) is to maximize
Berkshire's average annual rate of gain in intrinsic business value on a per-share basis. We do not
measure the economic significance or performance of Berkshire by its size; we measure by per-share
progress. We are certain that the rate of per-share progress will diminish in the future — a greatly
enlarged capital base will see to that. But we will be disappointed if our rate does not exceed that
of the average large American corporation.
Since that was written at yearend 1983, our intrinsic value (a topic I'll discuss a bit later) has
increased at an annual rate of more than 25%, a pace that has definitely surprised both Charlie and
me. Nevertheless the principle just stated remains valid:  Operating with large amounts of capital
as we do today, we cannot come close to performing as well as we once did with much smaller
sums. The best rate of gain in intrinsic value we can even hope for is an average of 15% per annum,
and we may well fall far short of that target. Indeed, we think very few large businesses have a
chance of compounding intrinsic value at 15% per annum over an extended period of time. So it
may be that we will end up meeting our stated goal — being above average — with gains that fall
significantly short of 15%.
4.
Our preference would be to reach our goal by directly owning a diversified group of businesses that
generate cash and consistently earn above-average retu