

I’ve yet to see an investment banker quantify this all-important math when he is presenting a stock-for-
stock deal to the board of a potential acquirer. Instead, the banker’s focus will be on describing “customary”
premiums-to-market-price that are currently being paid for acquisitions – an absolutely asinine way to evaluate the
attractiveness of an acquisition – or whether the deal will increase the acquirer’s earnings-per-share (which in itself
should be far from determinative). In striving to achieve the desired per-share number, a panting CEO and his
“helpers” will often conjure up fanciful “synergies.” (As a director of 19 companies over the years, I’ve never heard
“dis-synergies” mentioned, though I’ve witnessed plenty of these once deals have closed.) Post mortems of
acquisitions, in which reality is honestly compared to the original projections, are rare in American boardrooms.
They should instead be standard practice.
I can promise you that long after I’m gone, Berkshire’s CEO and Board will carefully make intrinsic value
calculations before issuing shares in any acquisitions. You can’t get rich trading a hundred-dollar bill for eight tens
(even if your advisor has handed you an expensive “fairness” opinion endorsing that swap).
* * * * * * * * * * * *
Overall, Berkshire’s acquisitions have worked out well – and very well in the case of a few large ones. So,
too, have our investments in marketable securities. The latter are always valued on our balance sheet at their market
prices so any gains – including those unrealized – are immediately reflected in our net worth. But the businesses we
buy outright are never revalued upward on our balance sheet, even when we could sell them for many billions of
dollars more than their carrying value. The unrecorded gains in the value of Berkshire’s subsidiaries have become
huge, with these growing at a particularly fast pace in the last decade.
Listening to Charlie has paid off.
28

Berkshire Today
Berkshire is now a sprawling conglomerate, constantly trying to sprawl further.
Conglomerates, it should be acknowledged, have a terrible reputation with investors. And they richly
deserve it. Let me first explain why they are in the doghouse, and then I will go on to describe why the
conglomerate form brings huge and enduring advantages to Berkshire.
Since I entered the business world, conglomerates have enjoyed several periods of extreme popularity, the
silliest of which occurred in the late 1960s. The drill for conglomerate CEOs then was simple: By personality,
promotion or dubious accounting – and often by all three – these managers drove a fledgling conglomerate’s stock
to, say, 20 times earnings and then issued shares as fast as possible to acquire another business selling at ten-or-so
times earnings. They immediately applied “pooling” accounting to the acquisition, which – with not a dime’s worth
of change in the underlying businesses – automatically increased per-share earnings, and used the rise as proof of
managerial genius. They next explained to investors that this sort of talent justified the maintenance, or even the
enhancement, of the acquirer’s p/e multiple. And, finally, they promised to endlessly repeat this procedure and
thereby create ever-increasing per-share earnings.
Wall Street’s love affair with this hocus-pocus intensified as the 1960s rolled by. The Street’s denizens are
always ready to suspend disbelief when dubious maneuvers are used to manufacture rising per-share earnings,
particularly if these acrobatics produce mergers that generate huge fees for investment bankers. Auditors willingly
sprinkled their holy water on the conglomerates’ accounting and sometimes even made suggestions as to how to
further juice the numbers. For many, gushers of easy money washed away ethical sensitivities.
Since the per-share earnings gains of an expanding conglomerate came from exploiting p/e differences, its
CEO had to search for businesses selling at low multiples of earnings. These, of course, were characteristically
mediocre businesses with poor long-term prospects. This incentive to bottom-fish usually led to a conglomerate’s
collection of underlying businesses becoming more and more junky. That mattered little to investors: It was deal
velocity and pooling accounting they looked to for increased earnings.
The resulting firestorm of merger activity was fanned by an adoring press. Companies such as ITT, Litton
Industries, Gulf & Western, and LTV were lionized, and their CEOs became celebrities. (These once-famous
conglomerates are now long gone. As Yogi Berra said, “Every Napoleon meets his Watergate.”)
Back then, accounting shenanigans of all sorts – many of them ridiculously transparent – were excused or
overlooked. Indeed, having an accounting wizard at the helm of an expanding conglomerate was viewed as a huge
plus: Shareholders in those instances could be sure that reported earnings would never disappoint, no matter how
bad the operating realiti