ur owners’ time horizon extends beyond the tenure of any individual CEO. I will not be your 
CEO for the next 60 years as simple arithmetic makes that – shall we say – an ambitious plan. 
However, 20 years from now, when I will have just a fraction of the tenure that Warren had, my 
intention is that you – or your descendants – will be proud that your company is even stronger. 
Culture and Foundational Values 
Berkshire’s success depends on our nearly 400,000 employees. Their commitment to applying our 
culture and values across Berkshire’s operating businesses – from See’s Candies to GEICO and 
everything in between – and in every circumstance is central to our progress. Our success also 
benefits from our Board’s leadership and ongoing alignment with our focus. 
2 

 
Last month, I sent a letter to our employees to emphasize that Berkshire’s culture and values remain 
unchanged and will continue into perpetuity. It is important to share with you the full articulation 
of this statement that was provided to them, with additional observations (shown in regular type) 
about what they mean to me personally, based on my experience at Berkshire. While these values 
are listed individually, they are mutually reinforcing and inseparable. 
Berkshire 
Berkshire is a unique conglomerate, intentionally designed to allocate capital rationally and 
efficiently. Insurance is our core, and we also hold substantial investments in businesses across 
many other sectors. Our approach underpins our goal to be exceptional stewards of our 
shareholders’ capital, maximizing the growth in Berkshire’s intrinsic value per share over the long 
term. 
We are committed to strengthening the great legacy built by Warren Buffett and his business 
partner Charlie Munger, ensuring it endures through our commitment to excellence. 
Our Culture 
Our culture begins with a partnership attitude. Our shareholders are our partners whose trust we 
have earned and must work to keep. Their interests are at the center of our decision-making. 
This attitude goes well beyond Berkshire’s corporate office in Omaha. It extends across our 
operating businesses, where employees embrace an ownership mindset, managing our 
shareholders’ assets as if they were their own. We think in decades, act with discipline, and uphold 
our commitments. Stewardship is embedded in how we operate, reinforcing that our culture is a 
system for generating long-term performance, not just a set of beliefs. 
Charlie’s comment on May 1, 2021, that “Greg will keep the culture” will forever resonate with 
me. It was a reminder that our culture is our most treasured asset, a call to maintain what defines 
Berkshire, and a challenge to ensure our culture continues. 
When I led Berkshire Hathaway Energy (BHE), Berkshire’s culture influenced how we operated. 
When capital was allocated or underlying risks were assessed, Warren’s questions consistently cut 
to the heart of the issue. Beyond that, we were entrusted with real autonomy to run the business, 
always focusing on our customers, and taking a long-term view. That owner’s mindset is expected 
from every Berkshire leader. 
Our Foundational Values 
The foundational values that follow are statements of principle that we embrace fully and strive 
every day to achieve. 
3 