

 
Decentralized Model 
We seek the best managers to run our operating businesses, who in turn lead talented teams. We 
operate a decentralized model with autonomy grounded in deserved trust. We minimize 
bureaucracy to provide our managers the independence to focus relentlessly on their business. In 
return, we expect accountability and integrity in performance. This autonomy attracts exceptional 
people to Berkshire. 
As I transitioned to Vice Chairman – Non-Insurance Operations in 2018, the leaders of those 
operating businesses shared a similar question: will the decentralized model and their 
responsibilities change? I assured them I had lived the culture of autonomy paired with 
accountability and seen the results. Decisions are made faster, with better knowledge and greater 
conviction, when they are made by those who are closest to the business and have accountability 
for its outcomes. This will not change. Our CEOs will never have to navigate layers of bureaucracy 
or have short-term earnings expectations dictated to them, leading to long-term value destruction. 
Our decentralized approach is a competitive advantage, attracting managers who thrive on 
autonomy and deliver on accountability. Berkshire must have leaders that reflect its principles, and 
not principles that fit individuals. 
Integrity 
We uphold Berkshire’s reputation for integrity, as demonstrated by alignment between how we 
think, what we say, and what we do. We make decisions that uphold our culture, communicate with 
candor and transparency, and deliver on our commitments. The result is a reputation that is 
earned, not claimed, through cumulative principled conduct. Every action reflects a deliberate 
effort to deepen the trust placed in Berkshire. 
For over 25 years, at each shareholder meeting we played a clip from Warren’s 1991 Salomon 
Brothers Congressional testimony: “Lose money for the firm, and I will be understanding; lose a 
shred of reputation for the firm, and I will be ruthless.” Our commitment to integrity has always 
been steadfast and uncompromising. We know integrity is not a quality you admire on a shelf; it 
is an active quality that must be earned, re-earned, and maintained daily. 
We will encounter business successes and setbacks. When we fail, we will say so. Doing the right 
thing also means rectifying our errors. A great example of both is BNSF’s resolution in 2025 of a 
longstanding dispute with the Swinomish Indian Tribal Community over crude oil shipments 
across Tribal lands. The BNSF decisions that sparked the dispute were made long ago, but the 
current BNSF leadership built a partnership rooted in communication, understanding, and respect. 
BNSF acknowledged its past mistakes and apologized, paving the way for mutually beneficial 
agreements that allow it to meet customer needs while operating safely on Tribal lands. 
4 

 
Across our operating businesses, we make choices every day about how we conduct ourselves. We 
have hundreds of thousands of employees who are good people and act with integrity and do the 
right thing. But in any large organization a small minority will fail to meet our standards. We will 
not tolerate such behavior. When it occurs, we will act decisively and ruthlessly to address it. 
Protecting our integrity and reputation is a never-ending journey. You can rest assured that we will 
remain relentless in this effort. 
Financial Strength 
We maintain a fortress-like balance sheet, ensuring Berkshire’s foundation is never compromised. 
We preserve this financial strength by using debt sparingly and prudently. Our substantial liquidity 
enables us to meet our obligations even under the most adverse conditions and to respond swiftly 
when opportunities arise. 
We are committed to maintaining exceptional financial strength. Our balance sheet is a strategic 
asset to be deployed at the right time. It allows us to act decisively, invest when others are tentative 
or fearful, and stand firm when financial storms roll through. 
We uphold Berkshire’s financial resilience and independence by holding limited levels of debt. We 
will remain an asset, not a risk, to America and the global financial system. Our cash and U.S. 
Treasury holdings now exceed $370 billion. While some of this capital is required to support our 
insurance operations and protect Berkshire against extreme scenarios, it also constitutes our dry 
powder. 
There will undoubtedly be incremental opportunities to deploy our owners’ capital without 
compromising Berkshire’s resilience. My role is to ensure our liquidity levels and capital 
deployment remain intentional and deliberate. We will always aim for ownership of productive 
businesses over U.S. Treasuries. 
Capital Discipline 
We deploy our shareholders’ capital to opportunities that generate rewards commensurate with 
their risk. When we expand existing operations, acquire new operating businesses, invest in equity 
securities, and repurchase Berkshire stock, we