 evaluate each opportunity based on its potential to 
grow Berkshire’s intrinsic value per share over a time horizon measured in perpetuity. 
Berkshire’s capital allocation principles and strategy guide us in identifying opportunities: 
•
Invest in businesses that we thoroughly understand, with durable advantages and long-term 
economic prospects; 
•
Partner with high integrity leaders who understand their customers and act like owners; 
5 

 
•
Avoid businesses that undermine the fabric of society or could jeopardize Berkshire’s 
reputation; 
•
Act quickly and concentrate our capital in a few high conviction ideas; and 
•
Maintain discipline and let compounding unfold. 
These criteria enable us to effectively and efficiently evaluate opportunities that come our way. 
Despite our substantial size, we take pride in a nimble culture where big investment opportunities 
can be confidentially shared with us, with a prompt response assured (and if we like it, no financing 
contingency attached). We quickly say “no” to those that do not align with our principles, and 
pursue those that do, knowing there will be many more of the former than the latter. 
Many times in Berkshire’s history, some observers have suggested that our substantial cash 
position signals a retreat from investing. It does not. We continue to evaluate many opportunities 
and will remain patient and disciplined in pursuing the right ones for the benefit of our owners. 
In 2025, our approach resulted in Berkshire announcing the acquisition of two very different 
businesses: OxyChem and Bell Laboratories. 
OxyChem is a well-run industrial chemicals business we first encountered through our investment 
in Occidental. The chlorine and caustic soda it produces serve essential markets, led by 
construction and core industrial uses. Management prioritizes efficient execution over volume, 
supported by an integrated asset base and access to low-cost raw materials. For Berkshire, this 
translates into cash flows from a compelling addition to our operating businesses. 
Last year, Warren received a letter from Steve Levy, Bell Laboratories’ CEO, asking that we look 
at the family-owned business he manages for the daughters of founder Malcolm Stack. Steve’s 
letter was perfect. Bell Laboratories meets a persistent need: rodent control. In Steve’s words, it 
possesses “high operating margins, very good historical growth and future growth potential, easy 
to understand and always needed, and a strong management team.” In our words: a business with 
durable advantages and long-term economic prospects run by excellent managers. We only wish it 
had been ten times bigger. 
These investments now join Berkshire’s strong set of operating businesses. Some of them require 
little incremental investment and return excess cash to Berkshire; others present compelling 
investment opportunities that will compound over time. 
Share repurchases are another important capital allocation option. We will buy back Berkshire 
shares when they trade below our estimate of intrinsic value, conservatively determined, ensuring 
that repurchases enhance per-share value for continuing owners. We may also purchase large 
blocks of shares directly from major holders when the opportunity presents itself. These purchases 
allow shareholders to own an incrementally larger piece of Berkshire’s businesses, without 
deploying any additional capital of their own. 
6 