 
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 
To My Fellow Berkshire Shareholders, 
Warren Buffett is arguably the greatest investor of all time, with generations benefiting from his 
investment acumen. He has also been a remarkable CEO, executing his vision of building a great 
insurance business since the acquisition of National Indemnity in 1967, and deploying the float to 
make successful investments across major sectors of the economy, concentrating in the U.S. (To 
Warren’s great frustration, this letter begins with these observations – yet we all know they are 
true.) 
In the past, Warren has spoken about how he draws inspiration from Ted Williams – the baseball 
Hall of Fame hitter who divided the strike zone into 77 segments and tried to swing only at pitches 
in a much smaller “happy zone,” resulting in a .344 career batting average and a historic .406 
season in 1941. Similar discipline, patience, and judgment define Warren’s investing: determining 
preferred pitches, waiting for them, then swinging decisively. But he is more than an investing 
guru. Warren built Berkshire into an enduring enterprise with his business partner Charlie Munger. 
They combined world-class capital allocation with the vision and leadership to create a business 
fully equipped to transition from founder-led to one well-positioned for the next 60 years and 
beyond. 
More than these achievements, what endures is how Berkshire treated its shareholders as true 
partners for 60 years. Warren has frequently expressed his respect and appreciation for Berkshire’s 
long-term shareholders, who represent one of the most remarkable owner bases of any publicly 
owned business. He invested alongside us, wrote with candor about both mistakes and successes, 
and welcomed us to Omaha each year for open, unfiltered discussion. His annual shareholder 
letters and direct interactions at Berkshire’s annual shareholder meetings are the clearest 
expression of Warren’s – and Berkshire’s – commitment to partnership with our shareholders. 
We are fortunate to have Warren as Berkshire’s Chairman, in the office five days a week, and 
available to us as we underwrite insurance, operate our non-insurance businesses, and deploy 
capital including equity investments. Warren also continues as an owner of Berkshire (although his 
shares will all go to philanthropy over the 10 years or so following his passing). 
To invest in Berkshire has long been a vote of trust in our founder – a trust that now rests with 
Berkshire. Your capital is commingled with ours, but it does not belong to us. Our role is 
stewardship. That stewardship has shaped a culture and reinforced a set of values that are not the 
result of our success, but the reason for it. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
I am honored by our Board’s decision to appoint me CEO of Berkshire and humbled to succeed 
Warren as I write my first annual letter to you. Warren is obviously a very hard act to follow. 
1 

 
Stepping into any leadership role begins with understanding the organization – why it exists, how 
its culture shapes its people, and what values guide its decisions. While you will see similarities 
and differences between Warren, Charlie, and me, we share the view that Berkshire is shareholder-
oriented to an unusual degree. 
My understanding of Berkshire in this way began in 1992, when I moved to Omaha to join 
CalEnergy, then unaffiliated with Berkshire. CalEnergy was partly owned by Peter Kiewit Sons’, 
and chaired by Walter Scott, Jr., who was also a Berkshire director. Walter had succeeded Peter 
Kiewit as the firm’s CEO and set a standard for leadership that mattered greatly to me. 
My specific roles at CalEnergy matter little today. What matters is that it was an extraordinary 
period of personal development. I felt fortunate to live in Omaha, a city that represented a form of 
capitalism grounded in fundamentals and advanced by values, anchored in businesses built to last, 
across industries such as insurance, construction, railroads, manufacturing, and – soon – energy. 
I met Warren and Charlie after CalEnergy became MidAmerican Energy Holdings and was 
acquired by Berkshire. I admired how they worked together to build an enterprise that reflected 
their beliefs about business and life. Those beliefs fostered Berkshire’s culture and values that 
continue to guide the company today, enabling it to endure through market cycles, disruptions, and 
change. Our durability comes from knowing who we are and how we operate. 
That deep understanding of the role our culture and values play in our success is shared by our 
unique shareholders – our partners in this enterprise. Through my engagement with you at annual 
meetings, I recognize how you want us to succeed together, and to do so in the right way. 
Berkshire’s culture and values form the basis of our operating framework, which shapes the 
strategy we pursue and the choices we make as we build Berkshire. As CEO, the framework 
governs how I lead every day. 
O