

 
Our approach to cash dividends continues to be that Berkshire will not pay dividends so long as 
more than one dollar of market value for shareholders is reasonably likely to be created by each 
dollar of retained earnings. On an annual basis, the Board reviews our policy. 
Our capital discipline guides us, whether we seek to purchase an entire business, a portion of equity 
in a publicly traded company, or our own shares. We maintain this approach regardless of the size 
of our cash and U.S. Treasury holdings. We will assess value carefully, act patiently, and hold for 
the long term – preferably forever. 
Risk Management 
We identify risks and strive to manage the level of risk across our organization. Our approach is 
decentralized, suited to each operating business’s scale and complexity. We focus on risks that 
could threaten Berkshire’s reputation, financial strength, or ability to realize opportunities for the 
long term. 
Risk management is central to Berkshire. The CEO is responsible for serving as Chief Risk Officer 
– there is no more important duty. 
An important part of fulfilling that responsibility is having the best on our team. When it comes to 
risk, Ajit wrote the playbook. His rigor in managing and pricing risk sets the standard in insurance. 
Any contract can be subject to legal challenge, and new coverages are particularly dangerous. We 
often set a price today for a cost that may not be known for many years. Pricing insurance risk 
correctly is essential, and we will walk away when the price is wrong. This approach is core to our 
insurance business, and Ajit is simply peerless at doing it. 
As a result, our insurance operations are a global powerhouse, able to accept risks others cannot, 
and pay claims without hesitation. Our unmatched financial strength allows us to retain 
underwriting risk and preserve the full economics for our owners, rather than dilute it through the 
purchase of reinsurance. 
Of course, understanding and managing risk is also essential for our non-insurance businesses. 
Each must thoroughly assess its specific risks and plan for new risks before pursuing new or 
incremental opportunities. 
Across all our businesses, our responsibility is to understand the risks and actively manage them. 
7 

 
Operational Excellence 
We pursue operational excellence across our operating businesses. Our employees continuously 
strive to exceed customer expectations, improve efficiency to better compete and prepare for 
challenges to our operating models, and reinvest prudently in their operations. We recognize that 
performance fluctuates year to year, so we assess a business’s success not by short-term results 
but by its ability over the long term to maintain and strengthen its competitive position and improve 
its economic prospects. 
Operational excellence at Berkshire is not a program. It is the result of disciplined decision making 
across our businesses. That work starts with safety and carries through to how we serve customers, 
make products, and compete – every day. 
In February 2025, Precision Castparts’ response to a major fire at its Jenkintown, Pennsylvania 
facility showed Berkshire at its best. All employees on site were evacuated safely. The team then 
worked closely with first responders, providing site layouts and identifying potential hazards. In the 
aftermath, Precision Castparts supported the local volunteer fire department, assisted the city, and 
conducted extensive environmental testing that confirmed the area was safe. 
At the same time, the fire created a significant operational challenge. The facility produced more 
than 700 parts that were sole-sourced and critical to major aerospace customers. Mark Donegan, 
Precision Castparts’ CEO, and his team quickly redistributed production across U.S. and 
international sites, doing so without compromising safety, quality, or delivery standards. No 
customer experienced a production line stoppage. The episode reflected our model at work: 
decentralized leadership, clear accountability, and exceptional execution under pressure. 
The daily pursuit of excellence must be never-ending. By focusing on customers, efficiency, and 
continuous improvement, we create value over the long term. 
Taken together, the foundational values listed above built Berkshire, and equip us to succeed in the 
decades ahead. While we have set them out explicitly this year, we will publish them as an 
attachment to future letters, with each letter discussing how we practiced those values across 
Berkshire. 
Their impact is also very evident in the operating performance of our businesses today. 
* * * * * * * * * * * 
Berkshire’s Performance 
Berkshire delivered operating earnings of $44.5 billion in 2025, below $47.4 billion in 2024 and 
above the $37.5 billion we have averaged over the past five years, a result that underscored the 
durability of our operating businesses, while also reflecting the fact that we have opportunities f