or 
further improvement. 
8 

 
Before diving into details, it is worth reiterating a Berkshire belief: our GAAP net earnings – with 
its sometimes-large annual swings from realized and unrealized investment gains and losses – must 
be assessed with caution. These gains and losses matter over the long run, but when evaluating 
Berkshire’s annual business performance, we believe operating earnings remains the best measure. 
Equally important is the cash our businesses generate. In 2025, Berkshire produced $46 billion of 
net cash flows from operating activities, compared to a five-year average of more than $40 billion, 
underscoring our ability to invest in opportunities across our businesses. 
Insurance Operations 
In 2025, Berkshire’s insurance operations accomplished their fundamental goals: grow 
underwriting profits and float in a disciplined manner. 
We own an extraordinary group of insurance businesses, each managed with a long-term 
orientation. Their performance reflected both their inherent strengths and an industry that, after 
several years of needed adjustments to pricing and policy terms, in 2025 began to experience a 
deceleration or reversal of these trends, particularly in the latter half of the year. This likely means 
we will write less property and casualty business for a period of time. 
Although the year began with significant wildfire-related losses in Los Angeles, the Atlantic 
hurricane season was unusually benign. For the first time in a decade, no hurricane made landfall in 
the U.S., our largest region of global exposure for our primary insurance and reinsurance 
businesses – a reminder that nature controls the winds, not Warren and certainly not me. 
We produced a combined ratio of 87.1% across our property and casualty businesses in 2025, 
comparing favorably with our five-year average of 90.7%, ten-year average of 93.0% and twenty-
year average of 92.2%, an exceptional underwriting result for an insurer of our scale. (Our 
retroactive reinsurance business, which does not receive regular premiums, is excluded from these 
figures.) 
No discussion of our insurance businesses would be complete without again acknowledging and 
appreciating Ajit. For nearly four decades, his judgment and discipline have shaped our ability to 
underwrite large and complex risks with care and precision. The organization and team he built 
understand both the limits and the opportunities inherent in very large risks, and his example 
continues to guide our teams. Their steadiness benefits us all. 
9 

GEICO 
GEICO has been a significant contributor to the group’s lower combined ratio. Over the past few 
years, GEICO has improved its cost structure, strengthened its underwriting discipline, and 
enhanced its ability to segment customers and the related pricing of risk. Industrywide rate 
increases from the end of 2022 through 2024 continued to positively impact performance in 2025. 
While these increases varied by product and jurisdiction, the pricing environment remained firm, 
and GEICO benefited accordingly. 
GEICO’s broad rate increases in recent years have restored margins but come at the cost of lower 
retention. Competitors’ rate reductions may extend that pressure into 2026. The GEICO team 
remains focused on pricing risks correctly for both existing and new customers. Restoring retention 
while maintaining underwriting discipline will take time. 
Alongside retaining its customer base with a more nuanced pricing strategy, GEICO is investing 
in technology to improve efficiency and service, while preserving its position as the industry’s 
low-cost provider. 
Primary Group 
Across our other primary property and casualty businesses, demand entering 2025 was solid, and 
pricing in most commercial insurance business segments was adequate or improving. As the year 
progressed, additional capital entered the market, resulting in lower pricing or decelerating rate 
increases in several important lines. We have always prioritized underwriting discipline over 
volume, and as pricing became less attractive, our premium growth plateaued. We expect these 
primary insurance businesses to face continued headwinds in 2026, and potentially beyond. 
Reinsurance Group 
Our reinsurance operations face similar dynamics. The reinsurance sector has attracted significant 
increases in available capital from both the traditional and alternative markets, which together with 
a more benign reinsured catastrophe loss burden in 2025 in most major regions has led to 
significant price declines in property reinsurance. In most casualty reinsurance segments, claims 
inflation continued to outpace pricing. As long as these phases of the cycle endure, we expect to 
write less reinsurance premium. 
Our insurance team will remain patient because of Berkshire’s structural strengths: 
1.
We have significant capital, enabling us to underwrite large and unusual risks.
2.
We give our insurance managers autonomy to run their businesses, 