without quarterly
earnings targets or growth mandates that might otherwise distort their underwriting
judgment.
10 

 
3. 
We insist on underwriting discipline as the most important ingredient in insurance success. 
4. 
We focus on the long term, resisting temporary industry enthusiasms and exuberances. 
The environment ahead will reward insurers whose focus remains on growing underwriting profit 
sustainably, not volume; customer trust and loyalty, not temporary spikes in market share; and 
long-term resilience, not short-lived opportunism. 
At year-end, our insurance float – the capital we hold to pay future losses and, in the meantime, 
invest for Berkshire’s benefit – stood at $176 billion. That amount increased from $171 billion at 
the end of 2024 and from $88 billion at the end of 2015. 
Our insurance businesses’ ability to declare ordinary dividends to Berkshire is restricted by 
insurance statutes and regulations, permitting up to $31 billion during 2025 without prior 
regulatory approval. The insurance businesses ultimately returned $29 billion to Berkshire in the 
year, underscoring the continued strength of their capital base. 
Non-Insurance Operations 
Our non-insurance group is composed of strong businesses operating within the railroad, utilities 
and energy, manufacturing, service and retailing industries. It also includes Pilot and McLane. 
Berkshire’s approach with its 51 non-insurance operating businesses is markedly different from 
most conglomerates. There are no layers of management and no allocated goals or targets set by 
Berkshire. Each business is accountable to its CEO, who is expected to pursue operational 
excellence relentlessly and close performance gaps. Capital allocation decisions for these 
businesses ultimately reside with me as Berkshire’s CEO and are based on each business’s 
opportunities and related risks. Most operate with no debt, and will remain that way. 
Across these businesses, we have made progress in the fundamentals that drive long-term value 
but also have a clear understanding of where we need to improve performance. Regardless of 
industry, our expectations are the same: managers who think like owners and rigorous execution – 
measured by results, not intentions. 
We are fortunate to have Adam Johnson now serving as president of our consumer products, 
service, and retailing businesses. Adam, who has lived the Berkshire culture for nearly 30 years 
(10 as CEO of NetJets), is now responsible for a group consisting of 32 companies. Adam and his 
team at NetJets think like owners and earned their reputation for operational excellence over the 
past decade. Their work transformed NetJets from a challenged business model into a successful 
enterprise that delivers value for Berkshire shareholders. That same approach – accountability and 
a focus on avoiding complacency – will guide how he works with the CEOs across his portfolio. 
11 

 
BNSF 
As one of the six major freight railroads in North America, BNSF is a key part of the transportation 
backbone of the U.S. economy. Berkshire acquired this iconic business in 2010 with an equity 
value of $34.5 billion. In 2025, BNSF produced $8.1 billion in net operating cash flows and 
returned $4.4 billion of that cash to Berkshire through dividends. For context, its average annual 
dividend over the past five years was $4.1 billion. 
Safe operations, reliable service, and a competitive cost structure ultimately determine a railroad’s 
success – and accordingly how we assess management’s performance. BNSF has focused on 
improving each of these. Safety remains the top priority, and BNSF has been the industry leader 
for the past decade. In 2025, shipments spent less time idling at terminals and moved through the 
network faster than in nearly any year in the company’s history. 
These gains matter, but they are not enough; more progress is needed to translate operational 
improvements into stronger financial results. We view operating margin (the inverse of the 
industry’s operating ratio) as the best measure of performance. In 2025, BNSF’s operating margin 
improved to 34.5% from 32.0% in 2024. It remained only modestly above its five-year average. 
The gap to the industry’s best remains too wide and closing it will require continued improvements 
in efficiency and service. Each one-percentage-point improvement in operating margin generates 
approximately $230 million of incremental operating cash flow for our owners. The team 
recognizes the significance of this opportunity, and we will be disappointed if we do not deliver a 
substantial improvement over the next few years. 
Alongside BNSF’s own improvements, there is also potential consolidation in the rail industry 
with the proposed Union Pacific–Norfolk Southern merger. Berkshire has been clear that it is not 
interested in acquiring one of the other Class I railroads, since the current economics would not 
work in our shareholders’ favor. BNSF’s focus on the prop