Warren Buffett: I’m Warren Buffett and that’s me with Charlie in an unscripted and spontaneous photo taken in
Savannah, Georgia early in 1982. Our wives could tell us apart, as long as we wore name tags. When Charlie
and I first met in 1959, if was as if twins who had been separated at birth had been reunited. But there were a
few important differences between Charlie and me that people missed. Let me elaborate.
For one thing, I was only interested in whether things worked. Charlie wanted to know how things worked. I
would turn on a switch and if the tv or light bulb went on, I could not care less about what had caused that
miracle. Charlie, however, would want to understand every aspect of how a generator worked, how electricity
traveled to his home, the merits of AC vs DC, whatever. You could say that Charlie understood electricity better
than Thomas Edison ever did.
Like his hero, Ben Franklin, Charlie wanted to understand everything, and he pretty well succeeded.
Additionally, Charlie liked to design things. When we met in 1959, he was designing the building, the house in
which he lived throughout his life. He once wanted to design a home for me in Santa Barbara, on a piece of
property Berkshire had inherited - fat chance! In 1958, I bought the house I now live in, but I would have been
happy with any of 100 or more houses as long it was in the general neighborhood of where I had been renting.
Of course I wanted my wife to like it and wanted to have room for 4 or 5 kids, but what it looked like inside,
outside was irrelevant.
The difference, of course, was of supreme relevance to Berkshire. Charlie’s architectural thoughts led to the
Berkshire Hathaway of today. Some of you may be surprised that Charlie first became a director of Berkshire in
1978. Through a small partnership, I bought control of Berkshire early in 1965. Charlie then didn’t have a
penny invested in Berkshire. But he immediately told me purchase was just plain dumb. Which it was.
Charlie then did for me what needed to be done to correct my error. And over time, we worked together to
achieve his vision. Charlie, in effect, then became the architect of today’s Berkshire. The architect is the person
who dreams of, then designs, and finally supervises the construction of great structures. The carpenters and
the (inaudible), that’s me, are needed, but the architect is the genius who provides the blueprint.
Berkshire has become a great company with a unique group of owners. The directors of Berkshire are the
trustees of the structure Charlie designed that lives beyond his lifetime and will live far beyond mine. I’m now
going to introduce these directors and give you a short first quarter report and the outlook for the company.
After that, we will take your questions. Please turn up the lights, and I hope you’ll join me in applauding Charlie
Munger, the architect of Berkshire.
—-------------------------Warren Buffett:
Yeah. Don’t wear out all your clapping on Charlie. I mean, we got, in addition, well, we have, first of all, Greg
Abel, a director, and Ajit Jain sitting next to him who runs insurance. And moving then to this back of this first
section. If each of the directors there would remain standing until we finish. We’ll go alphabetically down the
line. And we’ve got Howard Buffett, we have Susan Buffett, Steve Burke, Ken Chenault, Chris Davis, Sue
Decker, Charlotte Guyman, Tom Murphy Jr, Ron Olson, Wally Weitz, and Merrill Whitmer.
Okay, there are two people I would like to thank, and then we’ll get on to the brief description of the results of
the first quarter. First of all, I’d like to thank Melissa Shapiro, who put this whole event together. You can’t
imagine the work that goes into it. She just reported to me that we set a new record for Sees candy. I think they
brought along six tons and they will sell out. And one thing I do want to mention, we have only one book at the
bookstore of the bookworm this year. Normally we have about 25, but we have poor Charlie’s Almanac, fourth

edition, and I think we sold about 2400 of them yesterday. And that will be the only book. Next year we’ll go
back to having our usual selection, but we thought we would just turn it over to Charlie this year.
And then I would like to introduce one further person, and that’s the person who put that movie together. And
you can’t imagine the amount of work it is because, for example, on those scenes that we’ve used from the
past, if they involve Hollywood stars or various people, we needed to get permission all over again to show it
because we told them originally we would only show it within the confines of our auditorium here. And of
course, it went out on CNBC. And you just can’t imagine how much effort. But also the great cooperation we
got from all those desperate housewives and Jamie Lee. And with the desperate housewives, we had to get
Disney’s okay, and that was easy to get. But running down five desperate housewives, that one came in toward
the end. But the job of putting this together has been handled by the same fellow that handles us. Been doing
these for years and years and years and years. And I just would appreciate it if you could just put the spotlight
on Brad Underwood for just a minute.
Okay. We put out some results for the first quarter this morning at 07:00 our time. And some few sharp eyed
analysts and press people already picked up one or two items from it, which I’m sure we’ll get some questions
on later. But if we could start out with slide number one, which should be showing now, you’ll see that in the
first quarter. The way, and we talk about operating earnings at Berkshire, we’ve explained that many times, is
why we think these figures that we give you are the most descriptive of what’s really going on in the business
and take out the wild swings in the market that otherwise just, you know, and that was reporting big earnings
one quarter and big losses another quarter.We pay no attention to those at Berkshire, but you will see that we
had a better than average quarter.
And Ajit Jain wants me to point out to everyone that you cannot take the insurance earnings of the first quarter
and multiply by four. It just doesn’t work that way in insurance. And while we insure storms around the world,
the major storms, for example, that would affect our earnings would be probably number one, would be
something that went along the, that came in at the wrong place from our standpoint, and that just kept going up
the east coast.
And that’s our that’s our number one risk as we evaluate things. But we’re in all kinds of risks. There can be an
earthquake tomorrow, there can be an earthquake ten years from now, and we’re in that sort of business. But
the first quarter does hit the, should be our best quarter, certainly shouldn’t be our worst quarter. The most
likely quarter to be the worst quarter’s the third quarter. But anything can happen. Insurance. But fortunately,
nothing much happened in insurance during the first quarter, so we had much improved earnings in insurance
underwriting, and then our investment income was almost bound to well, it was almost certain to increase. And
I said that in the annual report, because yields are so much higher than they were last year. And we have a lot
of fixed short term investments that are very responsive to the changes in interest rates. So that figure is up
substantially, and I can predict that that one will be up for the year. But we’ve got more money to invest as we’ll
get to in a minute, and that’s fairly predictable. So that number will be up.
When you get into the railroad. The railroad earnings. We’re down modestly, but we should. Not immediately,
but we should be earning somewhat more money than we are earning under present traffic conditions. And
then traffic conditions can also hit the earnings, hit the potential earnings of the railroad. And if you want, every
Wednesday, you can get car loadings from the previous week. And I’ll regard you as a little deranged if you do
get them. But I get them every week. They’re available. And you’ll see that car loanings have been running for
the industry, have been running down modestly, and these earnings were as is expected, but we should earn
somewhat more money than that on the equivalent amount of car loadings.

And in the energy company, we had better earnings, but our earnings were distorted. Well, they were affected
by conditions that I wrote about in the annual report, and we’ll undoubtedly discuss more this morning. But off a
low base of last year, they were up somewhat. And so you get down to the final figure, and 11.2 billion is quite
an improvement from last year.
But we would expect our earnings should go up modestly from year to year, because, after all, we’re retaining,
like, 37 billion last year of earnings. So if we put 37 billion more, and you left it with us, we should do something
that’s satisfactory. And the goal of Berkshire, economic goal, is to increase the operating earnings and
decrease the shares outstanding. It’s that simple to describe. It’s not quite so simple pull off, necessarily.
But that’s what we’re attempting to do.
And if we’ll turn to slide two, please. I’ve got the history, and I just picked the pre pandemic year of when we hit
24 billion, and then we fell off in the first year of the pandemic. And then, as you see, we’ve moved up from 27
to 30 to 37 billion. And interesting thing about these earnings is they’re after depreciation and amortization and
taxes and all that sort of thing. So you can figure that, essentially, Berkshire has a little over $100 million per
day, including weekends and holidays, coming in to deploy. And we’ve set out many times when we’re
attempting to, we’re attempting to deploy that money, but we have that responsibility.
And sometimes, if you’ll turn to the next page, well, you’ll see how that’s built up the shareholders equity so
that Berkshire had March 31, 570 billion, and through retaining earnings. And we’ve been retaining earnings
ever since we took control of Berkshire Hathaway, except one day, as I remember, I think it was maybe 1968,
or 9 the directors declared a ten cent a share dividend, and I think I must have been in the restroom or
something at the time.
So if you leave out that period of madness, we’ve been retaining. We’ve been saving your money, putting it to
work, and sometimes we’ve done things that were big mistakes, but we never get close to fatal mistakes, and
every now and then, we do something that really works. And as Charlie pointed out in the past, you know, it’s
really, there’s probably been a half a dozen to a dozen over 57 or 58 or whatever it would be really important,
big decisions, and there’s been nothing close to fatal. So that continues to be the guideline.
And we have accumulated 571 billion. And I couldn’t help but look at who’s second. And JP Morgan had 327
billion at year end, and they’re up to 338, I believe, at the end of the quarter. But they pay significant dividends.
They repurchase shares. They’ve got a business that earns better returns on equity, but they don’t pile it, and
they shouldn’t. They don’t pile it back exactly like we have. And this does show what can be done, really,
without any miracles, if you save money over time.
And we have a group of shareholders, we had a group of partners, originally, Charlie and I did, that wanted to
save money and left their money with, like in that film you just saw. You saw Eddie and Dorothy Davis and the
Davis family and the children and the grandchildren, periodically did some other things with the money, but
they also basically left it with us. And we were a savings vehicle and they were able to do, live very well, but
they weren’t trying to live like the kings and queens of earlier capitalism and used to build the houses in New
England and have a servant standing behind everybody eating and all that sort of thing. So we’ve had very
few, what I would call, look at me type people that are attracted. There’s nothing wrong with it, but they just go
someplace else. And they are spending sort of unbelievable sums after a while, by the standards of the past.
And our people, nobody. We have nobody that’s a miser or a hoarder or anything like that in our group, they
live very well. But the math of compounding and a long runway have done wonders. And we will talk a little
later, right before lunch. We’ll give an illustration of that, of what can be done with that sort of philosophy.

So our cash and treasury bills were 182 billion at the quarter end. And I think it’s a fair assumption that they
brought probably about 200 billion at the end of this quarter. We’d love to spend it, but we won’t spend it unless
we think we’re doing something that has very little risk and can make us a lot of money.
And our stock is at a level where it adds slightly to the value when we buy in shares. But we would. We would
really buy it in a big way, except you can’t buy it in a big way because people don’t want to sell it in a big way,
but under certain market conditions, we could deploy quite a bit of money in repurchases. And as you’ll see on
the final slide, we have bought it in the last five years. We can’t buy them like a great many other companies
because it just doesn’t trade that way. The volume isn’t the same because we have investors, and the
investors, the people in this room, really, they don’t think about selling. They probably would hope. Many of you
don’t even check the price daily or weekly. The people who check the price daily have not made the money
that the people who have forgotten about it basically have over the years.
And that’s sort of the story of Berkshire. We’ll try to increase operating earnings, and we will try to reduce
shares when it makes sense to do so. And we will hope for an occasional big opportunity. And we’re quite
satisfied with the position we’re in. So with that background, I think we’ll turn it over to Becky Quick, and we will
alternate questions between Becky and those of you in the audience.

Becky, you want to start with the first question?
Becky Quick: Sure. Thanks, Warren. Let’s start. Just given what you mentioned, there was some news that
came out in the 10Q this morning. It shows that Berkshire sold another 115 million shares of Apple in this last
quarter. That’s Berkshire’s largest holding. And I think in that vein, we’ll start with a question from Sherman
Lamb. He is a 27 year old Berkshire Hathaway class b shareholder from Malaysia. And he asks, last year you
mentioned Coca Cola and American Express being Berkshire’s two long duration partial ownership positions,
and you spent some time talking about the virtues of both these wonderful businesses in your recent
shareholder letter. I noticed that you have excluded Apple from this group of businesses. Have you or your
investment manager’s views of the economics of Apple’s business or its attractiveness as an investment
changed since Berkshire first invested in 2016?
Warren Buffett: No, I would. But we have sold shares, and I would say that at the end of the year, I would think
it extremely likely that Apple is the largest common stock holding we have now. One interesting thing is that
Charlie and I looked at common stocks or marketable equities or the things that people love to look at as being
businesses. And so when we own a dairy queen or we own whatever it may be, we look at that as a business.
And when we own Coca Cola or American Express, we look at that as a business. Now we can buy really
wonderful companies in the market as businesses. We can’t buy all of them. I mean, all of their shares.
We can’t buy 90% or 80% or anything like that. But when we look at Coca Cola and American Express and
Apple, we look at them as businesses.
Now, there’s differences in taxes, factors, there’s difference in manageable responsibility, a whole bunch of
things. But in terms of deploying your money, we always look at every stock as a business, and we don’t, we
have no way, no attempt made to predict markets. We have no attempt made to pick stocks. I went through
many, many years doing the wrong thing. I got interested in stocks very early, and I was fascinated by them.
I wasn’t wasting my time, because I was reading every book possible and everything else. But finally, I picked
up a copy of the Intelligent Investor in Lincoln, and there was a few sentences in there that said, much more
eloquently than I can say it. If you look at stocks as a business and treat the market as something that doesn’t
tell you, isn’t there to instruct you, but it’s there to serve you, you’ll do a lot better over time than if you try to
take charts and listen to people talk about moving averages and look at the pronouncements and all of that

sort of thing. And so that made a lot of sense to me then, the way I’ve been allowed to deploy it. Charlie and I
talked about this, of course, constantly. It’s changed over the years, is the amount of capital we have and has
changed and all that.
But the basic principle was laid out by Ben Graham in that book, which I picked up for a couple of dollars, and
which basically said to me, you’ve been wasting your time now, but maybe you can use what you’ve learned or
been reading about and put it to better use. And then Charlie came along and told me how to put it to even
better use. And that’s sort of the story of why we own American Express, which is a wonderful business. We
own Coca Cola, which is a wonderful business, and we own Apple, which is an even better business.
And we will own, unless something really extraordinary happens, we will own Apple and American Express in
Coca Cola when Greg takes over this place. And it’s such a simple approach that it’s almost deceptive. Most
things, if you keep working harder and harder at it, you learn a little more math or you learn a little more
physics, but investments, you don’t really have to do that. You really have to have your mindset properly. So
we will end up, unless something dramatically happens that really changes capital allocation strategy,
we will have Apple as our largest investment, but I don’t mind at all, under current conditions, building the cash
position.
I think when I look at the alternative of what’s available, the equity markets, and I look at the composition of
what’s going on in the world, we find it quite attractive. And one thing that may surprise you, but we, almost
everybody I know pays a lot more attention to not paying taxes, and I think they should. We don’t mind paying
taxes at Berkshire, and we are paying a 21% federal rate on the gains we’re taking in Apple. And that rate was
35% not that long ago, and it’s been 52% in the past when I’ve been operating.
And the government owns. The federal government owns a part of the earnings of the business we make.
They don’t own the assets, but they own a percentage of the earnings, and they can change that percentage
any year. And the percentage that they’ve decreed currently is 21%. And I would say with the present fiscal
policies, I think that something has to give, and I think that higher taxes are quite likely, and the government
wants to take a greater share of your income, or mine or Berkshire’s, they can do it. And they may decide that
someday they don’t want the fiscal deficit to be this large, because that has some important consequences,
and they may not want to decrease spending a lot, and they may decide they’ll take a larger percentage of
what we earn and we’ll pay it. We always hope, at Berkshire, to pay substantial federal income taxes. We think
it’s appropriate that a company, a country that’s been as been as generous to our owners, it’s been the place.
I was lucky. Berkshire was lucky, was here.
If we send in a check like we did last year, we sent in over $5 billion to the US federal government. And if 800
other companies had done the same thing, no other person in the United States would have had to pay a dime
of federal taxes, whether income taxes, no Social Security taxes, no estate taxes. It’s open down the line now.
I would like to. I hope things develop well enough with Berkshire that we say we’re in the 800 club and maybe
even move up a few notches. It doesn’t bother me in the least to write that check. I would really hope, with all
America has done for all of you, it shouldn’t bother you that we do it. And if I’m doing it at 21% this year and
we’re doing it at a higher percentage later on, I don’t think you’ll actually mind the fact that we sold a little Apple
this year.
Okay, let’s go to section one.
Questioner: Hi, Mr Buffet, this is Matthew Lai from China Hong Kong. I’m running my listed listing company
called FW, and we are so grateful that you learned from you and you really inspire us. My question is, besides

the electrical car company, BYD, under what circumstances you will reinvest and reconsider to invest? Hong
Kong and China company. Thank you
.
Warren Buffett: Well, our primary investments will always be in the United States. We do think it.
The companies we invest in the United States, American Express does business around the world. And no
company hardly does business around the world like Coca Cola. I mean, they are the preferred soft drink. You
know, in something maybe like 170 or 180 out of 200 countries. Those are rough approximations from a few
years back, probably, but that degree of acceptance worldwide is, I think it’s almost unmatched. I can’t really
think of any company that has it. American Express has a position in the credit card deal, which I think is
extremely strong. And part of the reason for that is one of the directors that I introduced a few minutes ago,
Ken Chenault. But it has strengthened dramatically over the last 20 years for a lot of reasons.
The BYD investment was a, well, we made the commitment in Japan, which I did five years ago, and that was
just overwhelmingly, it was compelling. It was extraordinarily compelling. And we bought it as fast as we could,
and we spent a year and we got a few percent of our assets in five very big companies. But that’s the problem
of being our size. But you won’t find us making a lot of investments outside the United States, although we’re
participating through these other companies in the world economy.
But I understand the United States rules, weaknesses, strengths, whatever it may be. I don’t have the same
feeling for economies generally around the world. I don’t pick up on other cultures extremely well. And the
lucky thing is, I don’t have to, because I don’t live in some tiny little country that just doesn’t have a big
economy. I’m in an economy already, that has, after starting out with half a percent of the world’s population,
has ended up with well over 20% of the world’s output in an amazingly short period of time. So we will be
American oriented.
I mean, if we do something really big, it’s extremely likely to be in the United States. Charlie, in all those years,
there’s only two times he’s told me that this one is really…He would always go along with me and say, well,
when I was suggesting something, he’d say, well, this is really not that great, but it’s probably the best you’ll
come up with. So I’ll go along with the idea. But Charlie twice pounded the table with me and just said, you
know, buy, buy, buy. And BYD was one of them and Costco was the other. And we bought a certain amount of
Costco and we bought quite a bit of BYD but looking back, he already was aggressive. But I should have been
more aggressive in Costco. It wasn’t fatal that we weren’t. But he was right big time in both companies. And I’m
aware of what goes on in most markets, but I think it’s unlikely that we make any large commitments in almost
any country you can name, although we don’t rule it out entirely. And I feel extremely good about our Japanese
position, and we’ll have that.
I don’t know in how many years, Greg will be sitting with that at some point, and we couldn’t be happier with
that. But you really have to. We really have a different outlook in looking at. We’ll, we look at your money, which
we couldn’t bear to lose, and we feel that we’re very less likely to make any truly major mistakes in the United
States than in many other countries.Okay, Becky.
Becky Quick: This next question comes from Stanley Holmes, who is a Berkshire shareholder from Salt Lake
City. He asks: In his 2024 annual letter to shareholders, Chairman Buffett noted the severe earnings
disappointment experienced at Berkshire Hathaway Energy last year and expressed concern about earnings
and asset values in the utility industry. Recognizing that investors are worried about climate change related
expenses and that new uncertainties cloud the regulatory environment, the chairman suggested that some
jurisdictions may adopt the public power model. There are now signs that policymakers in Utah, citing state
sovereignty, may already be poised to move in that direction. The Utah legislature recently mandated the
state’s right to serve as sole purchaser of energy from an in-state power plant and under some circumstances,

purchase the power plant before it can be retired. The state utility regulator will be legally bound to prioritize
public purchases of power and facilities that could include assets owned by Berkshire Hathaway Energy
specific core utility Rocky mountain power. Will Berkshire, through BHE, continue to invest resources in
jurisdictions where corporate assets may be subject to confiscatory state policies and actions? And how is
Berkshire energy working with officials in Utah to minimize potential corporate losses if and when state control
is asserted over its electrical utility sector.
Warren Buffett: I will let Greg join with me, and the answer on this, but I would say our feeling is that Utah is
actually very likely to treat us fairly. Whether the action is in granting appropriate rates that give us the return,
we expect that generally expected in terms of our own properties or if they decide for some reason to go to
public power, I think they would compensate us fairly. In the 1930s. George Norris, a senator from Nebraska,
just turned Nebraska into a public power state. And our experience in Iowa would indicate that free enterprise
has its role and that we can run a privately owned utility company that will be more efficient for society than, at
least in most states, people can do with public power.
But what has happened is that there’s going to be enormous amounts of money, enormous amounts of money
spent on power. And if you’re going to do it with private owners, there’s nobody better situated than Berkshire
to satisfy the portion, but a large portion of the needs of the country. And we will do it at a rate of return that is
not, you know, it’s not designed to make us rich or anything like that. It’s a sensible rate of return, but we won’t
do it if we think we’re not going to get any return. It would be kind of crazy. And we’ve seen actions in a few
states where some of the costs associated with climate change, they’re not being regarded as costs that the
utility shouldn’t incur. Well, believe me, if it was publicly owned, they would have incurred it too. But we’ll do
what society tells us and we have got the money and we’ve got the knowledge to participate big in something
that is enormously important for the country. But we’re not going to do, we’re not going to, we’re not going to
throw good money after bad in the field. I don’t worry about, my understanding is, and Greg can elaborate on
this now immediately, but I don’t regard Utah as being unfriendly to the idea of utilities being treated fairly.
Charlie. Charlie, I’m so used to that. I had actually checked myself a couple times already, but I’ll slip again.
Greg Abel: That’s a great honor. Yeah. When we touched on it initially in your letter relative to the challenges in
the industry, and then you’ve just alluded to the significant investment that has to go into the energy industry,
the utility sector, for many years to come. And I think if we start there, if I think of our different utilities, it will
definitely come to Utah and Pacific Corp. But if you look at the underlying demand that is building in each of
those utilities and the amount of dollars that are going to have to go in to meet that demand, it’s absolutely
incredible. So when you raised it in your letter, it’s a really important issue. We have to have a regulatory
compact that works between, if it’s a public utility, it has to work in concert with the state, Utah being an
example, or it ultimately becomes potentially a public power.
So just to set the frame a little bit, if I think of Iowa, which you mentioned, and the underlying, we’ve made
substantial investments there, it’s been very consistent with both the public policy that the state and legislator
wanted, and they enacted very specific laws to encourage that. But that utility is more than 100 years old right
now. And if we look at the demand that’s in place for Mid American Iowa utility over the next, say, into the mid
2030s associated with AI and the data centers, that demand doubles in that short period of time, and it took
100 years plus to get where we are today, and now it’s going to double. And that will require substantial
amounts of capital from mid american and its shareholders.
And how that will function is if we have a proper regulatory compact in place, which you’ve highlighted, if we
then go to, say, Nevada, where we own two utilities there and cover the lion’s share in Nevada, if you go over a
similar timeframe and you look at the underlying demand in that utility and say, go into the later 2030s, it triples
the underlying demand and billions and billions of dollars have to be put in. Our rate base will literally go from,

it’s not a modest level now, but you’re talking probably an incremental six to 10 billion at least of rate base
going into that type of entity, which requires, again, alignment with the state and their policies and a proper
recovery of our underlying both capital and a return on capital.
So when we come to the wildfires, that’s been a substantial challenge because it’s the first time there’s been a
lot of discussion around one of our utilities. One experienced significant losses associated with the wildfires.
What portion of those costs will be recovered? And that’s really the dialogue we’re in. And does that properly
work? When I think of the wildfires, there’s been many claims in a recent additional claim last week for $30
billion, and we don’t take that lightly, but it is an incremental claim to an already existing lawsuit that’s in place.
And when I think of PacifiCorp, we’re in a place where first and foremost, all the litigation will be challenged
because the basis for it, at least we believe there’s places where it’s unfounded and will continue to challenge
it. And it will take many years to be resolved, as Warren highlighted in the letter. But if you think of Pacificorp
and the litigation there, number one, how we think and operate those assets have to change. Because we’ve
had a regulator, we have worked with the states, across all our states for many years with the fundamental
goal to be to keep the power on. And our teams and our employees worked incredibly hard to keep the power
on, day in, day out, through storms. Unfortunately, through the 2020 fires, the instincts were not to turn off the
power. The instinct was to keep the power on, to keep hospitals, fire stations responding. It’s not in their mind,
or at least culturally, it wasn’t in our minds to de energize.
So the first thing we had to do was step back and say, we’ve got to fundamentally change the culture, not just
at Pacific Corp. But across all our utilities. The first thing we have to recognize is that there’s now going to be
situations where we prioritize de-energizing the assets, and that’s completely different than with how we’ve
operated those assets, as I’ve highlighted, for 100 plus years. So we start with the culture. We had to change
that. The second thing is we’ve now changed our operating systems so that we can turn off the power very
quickly. If there’s a fire that’s increasing, approaching, we will turn off our systems now and we’ll go, the minute
the conditions are safe again, we’ll re-energize it. But we’ve had to do that. And then the third thing is
continuing to invest in a way that allows us to try to minimize the risk of the fire.
But when you get back to Utah and Pacific Corp. The challenge we do have is within Pacific Corp. As we go
through both litigation and through continuing to operate that entity, it generates a certain amount of capital and
profits that will remain in that entity and being reinvested back into that business. But fundamentally, as we go
forward, we need both legislative and regulatory reform across the Pacific Corp. states if we’re going to deploy
incremental capital, make incremental contributions into that business. As Warren said, we don’t want to throw
good capital after bad capital, so we’ll be very disciplined there. But the reality is there are opportunities to both
solve the legislative and regulatory solutions. And the best example we actually have, and I think it’s the gold
standard across the country, is Utah.
So as Warren touched on. It’s a state we’re happy we’re investing in. It is part of Pacific Corp. So there’s a
certain amount of balance there as to how we do it. But in the last legislative session that existed, Utah actually
passed the bill that does a couple very important things. One, it caps non economic damages on wildfire
claims. So if you go back to the wildfires we have in Oregon and the claims you’re hearing filed for, there’s
economic damages associated with them, and those harms should receive the economic damages associated
with that. But unfortunately, and even though there’s legislature and case law in Oregon that says wildfire non
economic damages should not be awarded, there’s very substantial non economic damages being awarded
there. Utah took a very proactive position to say, we will cap those non economic damages and it creates an
environment. Again, it’s back to that, is there an environment where you want to invest in? Yes, and then
incrementally they’ve created a very substantial fund. It’s literally called the Wildfire Fund for fires in Utah that
will help facilitate both liquidity and the ability to resolve the situation.

So Utah, we believe, including the legislation, that a lot of other things came out of it is the actual gold standard
as we go forward. So very important issue for Berkshire Hathaway Energy, but at the same time, it is a Pacific
Corp. issue. The risk of regulatory compacts not being respected is a much broader one that we will always
evaluate and be careful how we deploy our capital. But both Pacific Corp. Will manage through it. And I see
other very good and significant opportunities in Pacific Corp. I mean, in Berkshire Hathaway Energy.
Warren Buffett: The return on equity investment that’s been promulgated and been achieved over the years
has been, particularly in recent years, well below the return on equity that has been achieved by American
industry generally. And so whether you earn x or x plus a half a percent or x minus a half a percent, that differs
by state, and some states are more attractive than others. But whether you earn x or go broke is not an
equation that works. And, you know, we won’t put our shareholders’ money, they didn’t give it to us to lose it all.
And they might like it if it’s better when it’s plus a half a percent, the next minus a half a percent.
But the electric utility industry will never be as good as, I mean, just remotely as good as, you know, the kind of
businesses we own in other arenas. I mean, you look at the return on tangible equity at Coca Cola or American
Express or to really top it off, Apple. It’s just, it’s, you know, it’s just a whole different game. But in utilities, the
trade has been, the compact has been that you get a modest return and climate change comes along and it
causes way more fires. That’s just the cost of doing business. And it doesn’t mean that we can’t do things to
mitigate fires in the future. And you can make different policies on when you turn off the lights, but somebody’s
going to do, somebody’s going to put up many, many hundreds of billions, maybe in the trillions, and climate
change enters into that, and it can be done through public power or it can be done through private enterprise to
quite a degree. And we would be, certainly good for 100 billion or more, but we’re not going to throw good
money after bad.
Okay, let’s do station four.
Questioner: Hi, I’m Joe, visiting from San Francisco. How do you think about the role of technological
advances, especially generative AI, on more traditional industries? Thank you.
Warren Buffett: Yeah, I made a mistake in calling on four, but I’ll get back to two later on.
I don’t know anything about AI, but I do have, that doesn’t mean I deny its existence or importance or anything
of the sort. And last year I said that we let a genie out of the bottle when we developed nuclear weapons, and
that Genie has been doing some terrible things lately. And the power of that genie is what, you know, scares
the hell out of me. And then I don’t know any way to get the genie back in the bottle. And AI is somewhat
similar. It’s part way out of the bottle, and it’s enormously important, and it’s going to be done by somebody.
We may wish we’d never seen that genie or may do wonderful things, and I’m certainly not the person that can
evaluate that, and I probably wouldn’t have been the person that could have evaluated it during World War
Two, whether we tested a 20,000 ton bomb that we felt was absolutely necessary for them United States, and
would actually save lives in the long run. But where we also had Edmund Teller, I think it was, it was on a
parallel with Einstein in terms of saying, you may, with this test, ignite the atmosphere in such a way that
civilization doesn’t continue. And we decided to let the genie out of the bottle and it accomplished the
immediate objective.
But whether, whether it’s going to change the future of society, we will find out later. Now, AI, I had one
experience that does make me a little nervous, and I’ll just explain it that very, very recently, fairly recently, I
saw an image in front of my eyes on the screen, and it was me and it was my voice. And wearing the kind of
clothes I wear, and my wife or my daughter wouldn’t have been able to detect any difference. And it was
delivering a message that no way came from me. So it, when you think of the potential for scamming people, if

you can reproduce images that I can’t even tell that, say, I need money, you know, it’s your daughter, I’ve just
had a car crash. I need $50,000 wired. I mean, scamming has always been part of the American scene, but
this would make me, if I was interested in investing in scamming. It’s going to be the growth industry of all time,
and it’s enabled in a way.
Obviously, AI has potential for good things, too, but I don’t know how, based on the one I saw recently, I
practically would send money to myself over some crazy country. So I don’t have any advice on how the world
handles it because I don’t think we know how to handle what we did with the nuclear genie. But I do think, as
someone who doesn’t understand a damn thing about it, that it has enormous potential for good, an enormous
potential for harm. And I just don’t know how that plays out. I’d like to mention to Becky that Ajit will not be
participating in the afternoon session, so if you could focus on any, if there are insurance questions you want to
ask, that be a good one?
Becky Quick: Yeah. This next question is for both Warren and Ajit. It’s from Ben Noll, who’s a Minneapolis
shareholder who’s been a shareholder since 1995. And he says in an interview this past year, Todd Combs
said that in first meeting you in 2010, he told you GEICO is better at marketing and branding, Progressive is a
data company, and data is going to win in the long run. But it appears you did not prioritize data analytics at
GEICO until a decade later, when you made Todd CEO. As business units like GEICO age and need new
strategic direction, I wonder if Berkshire’s hands off management approach is a source of vulnerability. Will you
please review your thinking on changes made at GEICO and explain how Berkshire is structured to react if the
Berkshire CEO sees that a business unit is strategically off track and Ajit, I hope you will continue to update us
on yours and Todd’s progress at remedying the data analytics shortcomings at GEICO.
Warren Buffett: Ajit, would you like to?
Ajit Jain: Yeah. As Warren has pointed out in the past one of the drawbacks that GEICO is faced with, it hasn’t
been doing as good a job as matching rate with risk and segmenting and pricing product based on the risk
characteristics. This has been a disadvantage at GEICO for a few years now. We are trying to still play catch
up. Technology is something that is unfortunately a bottleneck. But there again, we are making progress. And
equally importantly, we have hired people who are much better than what they inherited in terms of data
analytics and pricing and slicing data. So, yes, I recognize we are still behind. We’re taking steps to bridge the
gap, and hopefully by the, certainly by the end of 25, we should be able to be along with the best of players
when it comes to data analytics, whether it’s pricing, whether it’s claims or any other factor that drives the
economics of the insurance business.
Warren Buffett: I would add, equating rate with risk obviously is important in every line of insurance business. I
mean, that’s what you’re involved with, is deciding whether a given rate offers us the chance or the probability
that we will make a little of money on it, and that sometimes we’re only risking losing a little and sometimes
we’re risking losing huge amounts. But GEICO, and Progressive has done a better job in that recently, but our
fundamental advantage at GEICO, of course, is that we have lower costs than virtually anybody. And that cost
advantage has been dramatic. We’ve driven our underwriting expense ratio below 10%, and there’s just very,
very, very few companies that can compete with that. So it isn’t, it’s not in the least a survival question, and it
isn’t even exactly a profitability thing.
But, you know, we would rather have x percent of the market than a half of x percent. But, we roughly, I think in
the month of March we didn’t lose policyholders and we got 16 million or whatever it is, of them, and we’ve got
the lowest cost operations. So it’s not a threat. It’s not remotely a threat to survival, it’s not a throat, it’s not a
threat to even profitability. But on the other hand, we would like to be growing with something that is the best
model around in the insurance business of delivering at a low cost.

And we now have a recognition that we didn’t have back when Leo Goodwin started in 1936. But the same
principle that worked then is that if you can offer somebody a good product, cheaper than the other guy, and
everybody has to buy it, and it’s a big business you know, it’s very attractive to be in, and GEICO is a very
attractive business and has got its lowest cost thing, and it does have to do a better job of matching rate to risk.
But our low costs have masked the fact that for a while that we could do without progressing as much as we
should have in the matching of right to risk. And now Todd has been working intensively at that, and he’s made
a lot of progress, but there’s still work to be done. But in the meantime, we’re not going to shrink, and we
should make better underwriting profits than most companies in the auto insurance business.
Okay, I’m going to back up and go to. I think I left station two out of it earlier. So do we have somebody there?
Questioner: Yeah. Good morning. My name is Sebastian Sartre. I’m from Munich, Germany. Berkshire is a very
respected company in Germany. And my question is, who are your most trusted advisors today? Is it Ted and
Todd? Is it Greg and Ajit? Is it your wife, your children? And what do you value about them? Thank you.
Warren Buffett: Well, it depends whether they’re advising me on money or on other things. I trust my children
and my wife totally, but that doesn’t mean I ask them what stocks to buy. In terms of managing money, there
wasn’t anybody better in the world to talk to for many, many decades than Charlie. And that doesn’t mean I
didn’t talk to other people. But if I didn’t think I could do it myself, I wouldn’t have done it. So to some extent, I
talked to myself on investments, and I think my children have gotten a whole lot wiser over the years. And so I
listened to them on a lot of things. I’ll listen to my daughter on who to vote for locally, because she knows a lot
more about that than I do. And I’ll listen to my wife on a lot of things and I won’t get into details. So it is
important.
If you don’t live a life where you surround yourself and limit yourself to people you trust, it won’t be much fun. I
mean, I literally have been in the position ever since I was in my twenties of being able to have people I trusted
around me. And I’ve made mistakes occasionally, but they filter out over time. You learn. And when I found
Charlie, for example, in all kinds of matters, not just investment, I knew I’d have somebody that, well, I’ll put it
this way. You can think about this, Charlie. In all the years we worked together, not only never once lied to me,
ever but he didn’t even shape things so that he told half lies or quarter lies to sort of stack the deck in the
direction he wanted to go. He absolutely considered, total, of utmost importance that he never lied. Now, that
occasionally got him in trouble at dinner parties or something. If he said to the woman, I really prefer the way
you used to do your hair, the way that somebody over across the room does.
But in terms of having a partner, I simply cannot think of a conversation I ever had with Charlie that in the least
he misled me or shaped it his way or anything of the sort. So when you get that in your life, you know, you
cherish those people and you sort of forget about the rest. Okay.
Becky Quick: Again, this question is for Ajit comes from Meher Barucha. Climate change seems to be
impacting the insurance industry heavily, with major players pulling out of markets like California because of
wildfire and flooding risks combined with payouts increasing. How does Mr Jain see this risk expanding to
other regions, and how has the thesis on insurance investments changed because of it?
Ajit Jain: Climate change. Climate risk is certainly a factor that has come into focus in a very, very big way
more recently. Now, the one thing that mitigates the problem for us, especially in some of the reinsurance
operations we are in, is our contractual liabilities are limited to a year in most cases. So as a result of which, at
the end of a year, we get the opportunity to reprice, including the decision to get out of the business altogether
if we don’t like the pricing in the business. But the fact that we are making bets that tie us down to one year at

a time certainly makes it possible for us to stay in the business longer term than we might have otherwise.
Because of climate change, clearly, prices need to go up. It is difficult to be very scientific about how much the
prices need to go up. They need to go up a lot. And we keep increasing prices and hope we stay ahead of the
curve. But that doesn’t happen in all cases.
The regulators don’t make it any easier by tying our feet to the ground and making it difficult for us to withdraw
from certain territories or to make dramatic changes in the pricing of certain products, as a result of which a
number of insurance carriers, including ourselves, have decided to, to not write business in certain states. I
think the regulators are getting a little more realistic about the, and they are waking up to the fact that the
insurance carriers need to make some kind of a return, a decent return for us to keep deploying our capital.
It’s a constant battle back and forth. It’s been against the capital providers these last few years, but I think we
are coming back into balance. If you look at the results that have been recently announced by the insurance
carriers, everyone’s now making record profits. Obviously that will not last, but certainly for the next several
months, I think the insurance industry, in spite of climate change, in spite of increased risk of fires and flooding,
it’s going to be an okay place to be in.
Warren Buffett: Climate change increases risks and in the end it makes our business bigger over time. But not
if we, if we misprice them, we’ll also go broke. But we do it one year at a time, overwhelmingly. And I would say
this, I would rather have Ajit assessing us than any thousand underwriters or insurance managers in the world.
I mean, the factors aren’t, you know, we’ll take Atlantic hurricanes, which would be probably our biggest risk.
There’s no question that you can measure the temperature of the water in the Atlantic and you know, what
warm water does to hurricanes. But you don’t know necessarily whether that’s good or bad because it may
cause them to turn faster, you know, and it may, it may change the path as well as the intensity and frequency
of losses. But we’ll write it one year at a time and we’ll have Ajit underwriting it and, you know, we don’t have to
tell you what’s going to happen fast five years from now or ten years from now. And people who don’t have sort
of analytical insurance minds that comment on this subject really don’t expand our knowledge.
We get a lot of letters from people that I’m sure have good IQs, but they don’t really know, they don’t
understand the insurance business and they’re not wrong, I don’t think, in my mind about climate change. But if
there was no risk, there’d be no insurance business. And we’re in the business of evaluating it and we do it one
year at a time. And there’s some exceptions where you can’t do it, where your decisions extend for a long time
in the future. We try to avoid those. But again, you don’t need a thousand people analyzing water currents. I
think you need one very, very, very smart guy. And we’ve got him. Okay?
Ajit Jain: Yeah. The only thing I’d add is that climate change, much like inflation done right, can be a friend of
the risk bearer. And it has been for us. If you look at GEICO, it had 175,000 policies roughly in 1950, and it was
getting roughly $40 a car. So that was 7 million of volume. You know, now we have, we’re getting over $2,000.
Well, all the advances in technology and everything like that, if we had been wedded to some formula, what we
did with $40, we’d have had a terrible business. But in effect, by making the cars much safer, they’ve also
made it much more expensive to repair. And a whole bunch of things have happened, including inflation. So
now we have a $40 billion business from something that was 7 million back when I called on it. So if we’d
operated in a non inflationary world, GEICO would not be a $40 billion company. Okay, we’re now finally
coordinated towards station three I believe.
Questioner: Hello. Hey, everyone. Hi Warren. I’m Liam. I’m 27, from Newmark, Ontario, Canada.
I got invested in Berkshire, thanks to my dad, who brought me down to this meeting. I’m so excited to be here.
Most 27 year olds had idols who are rappers, but instead, my idols are Warren, Charlie, who will miss forever,
and also your cousin Jimmy, who unfortunately had to go this year, too. It’s been a tough year as a Canadian.

Similar with Greg, I always wonder about our Canadian economy and what you think about the Canadian
economy. We got some beat down bank stocks right now, and I don’t know what your opinions are on these.
And I also wonder, in your nineties, if the rumors are true and you’re still able to eat McDonald’s. I like fast food
myself, but I always wonder at 93, he’s still able to eat those and enjoy the Coca Cola. Thanks, Warren. Okay,
well, we’ve got a Canadian here, so we’ll let him answer the first part. And if you watch me, you’ll see what I
like to eat. Go to it, Greg.
Greg Abel: Okay. Yeah. Well, we are fortunate to have a number of operations up in Canada. It goes across
many of our operating entities. And then, as Warren touched on, all the businesses that we have, a piece of
that we’re invested in are up in Canada. So the presence is significant, where we’re always looking at making
incremental investments there, because it’s an environment we’re very comfortable with. Warren touched on
understanding the US environment, business environment, and I would put Canada equally in that bucket that
we understand it and would be comfortable. And I would say the economy moves very closely to the US.
So the results we’re seeing out of our various businesses that report both the US and Canadian operations
aren’t drastically different. And there’s a few that we’re on the energy side, for example, we make very
substantial investments up there in Alberta. But again, it’s very consistent with how that economy is growing,
and I would see it being very consistent with what we see here. Warren, anything to?
Warren Buffett: Yeah, no, obviously there aren’t as many big companies up there as there are in the United
States. But when we get. I got one from Canada just the other day that I sent over to Greg, too. When we see
anything that’s suggesting an idea that’s of a size that would interest and meets other requirements, we don’t
have any hesitancy about putting big money in Canada. And there are things we actually can do fairly well,
where Canada could benefit from Berkshire’s participation. We did it some years ago, not that many years ago,
but there was a financial institution up there. They had a problem and they did, as I remember, 30 plus various
other people that were kicking it around. And meanwhile, the place was getting close to the edge for not a
fundamental problem. And Ted Weschler from our office went up there. I heard about it on a Monday or
something. Ted Wesler went up there and we offered a solution in a couple of days to something that was
getting close to the brink. So we do not feel uncomfortable in any way, shape or form putting our money into
Canada. In fact, we’re actually looking at one thing now. But, you know, they still have to meet our standards in
terms of what we get for our money.
But they don’t have a, they don’t have a mental, we don’t have any mental blocks about that country. And of
course, there’s a lot of countries we don’t understand at all. So Canada, it’s terrific. When you’ve got a major
economy, not the size of the US, but a major economy that you absolutely give them, you feel confident about
operating there. Okay, Becky.
Becky Quick: Warren, you just said that you’d rather have a jeet running risk assessment at the insurance
operations than any other thousand insurance adjusters in the world. So I’d like to follow up with a question
that came in from Mark Blackley in Tulsa, Oklahoma. He said, Warren, for years you have spoken about the
incredible impact Ajit has had on Berkshire. You often joke, if you and Ajit are in a sinking boat and we can only
save one of you, swim to Ajit. While we often discuss plans for the next CEO of Berkshire, little is mentioned on
who will one day replace Ajit. How should we think about the future of the Berkshire insurance operations,
given how challenging it may be to find another Ajit? And I’d like to hear Ajit’s thoughts on this as well.
Warren Buffett: Well, I would say we won’t find another Ajit, but fortunately, he’s a good bit younger than I am,
so I hope you have to worry a little bit about me first before I start working about Ajit. We won’t find another Ajit,
but we have an operation that he has created and that at least part of it, there are certain parts of it that are
almost impossible for competitors to imitate. And if I was in their shoes, I wouldn’t try and imitate them. And so
we’ve institutionalized some of our advantages, but Ajit is. Well, his presence allowed us to do it and he did it.

But now we’ve created a structure that didn’t exist when he came in 1986. Nothing close to it existed with us or
with anybody else. And insurance is the most important business at Berkshire. Marketable securities are
important, but they’re not in the class exactly as our insurance business. And Ajit. We won’t have the same
business if Ajit isn’t running it, but we’ll have a very good business. And again, that’s thanks to Ajit. I’d been in
the business when he came in 1986. I first went to GEICO in 1950. We first bought national indemnity in 1957,
and it was something that we’d made quite a bit of money in the stocks of insurance companies, but we
needed an Ajit, unfortunately, he came into the office on a Saturday and he was tired of working at something
where he really didn’t - it just challenges his intellect. And I said, well, we got a lot of challenges. Nobody’s
perfect. So you’ve never seen an insurance policy or owned an insurance stock, but here are the keys, and
that’s worked out very well.
Ajit: Thank you very much, Warren. Thank you very much, everyone. But the fact of the matter is, nobody is
irreplaceable. And we have Tim Cook here in the audience, I believe, who has proved that and has set an
example for a lot of people who follow.
Warren Buffett: That’s a great observation.
Ajit Jain: Now, having said that, I will also add that our board is conscious of the succession issue, not only at
Warren’s level, but also at my level. And every year they have me sitting in front of them answering questions
and having me share my ideas with them in terms of what would happen to the operations if I get hit by a truck.
We go through the various operations we have. I review with them a short list of people I think ought to be
candidates for replacing me. And in addition to that, I go a step further and identify a particular individual as the
person I would hand over the keys to if something were to happen to me. Obviously that would be subject to
change. But we take this issue fairly seriously. And I think at the end of the day, as Tim Cook has proved to us,
it will be the biggest non issue of the day. The earth will still keep revolving around the axis.
Warren Buffett: Okay, we know what we will do. We know it’s a good answer, but we know it isn’t. It isn’t. We
won’t have another Ajit. Station five.
Questioner: Hi, my name is Ange Andrew Nickes and I’m wondering, if you. Had one more day with Charlie,
what would you do with him?
Warren Buffett: Well, it’s kind of interesting because, in effect, I did have one more day. I mean, it wasn’t a full
day or anything, but he. We always lived in a way where we were happy with what we were doing every day. I
mean, Charlie liked learning. He liked, as I mentioned in the movie, he liked a wide variety of things. So he was
much broader than I was. But I didn’t have any great desire to be as broad as he was. And he didn’t have any
great desire to be as narrow as I. But we had a lot of fun doing anything. And, you know, we played golf
together, we played tennis together, we did everything together. And this you may find kind of interesting. We
had as much fun, perhaps even more to some extent, with things that failed, because then we really had to
work and work our way out of them. And in a sense, there’s more fun having somebody that’s your partner in
digging your way out of a foxhole than there is just sitting there and watching an idea that you got ten years
ago just continually produce more and more profits. So it wasn’t, you know, he really fooled me, though. He
went to 99.9 years. I mean, if you pick two guys, you know, he never publicly said he never did a day of
exercise except where it was required when he was in the army. He never did a day of voluntary exercise. He
never thought about what he ate.
You know, we started every day, and Charlie had. He was interested in more things than I was, but we never
had any doubts about the other person, period. And so if I’d had another day with him, we’d probably have
done the same thing we were doing the earlier days and we wouldn’t have wanted another.

We only had one day. There’s a great advantage in not knowing where you’re going, what day you’re going to
die. And Charlie always said that, just tell me where I going to die, so I’ll never go there. Well, the truth is he
went everywhere with his mind, and therefore he was not only interested in the world at 99, but the world was
interested in him. It’s remarkable, you know. I told him toward that. In the last few years, I’d never seen
anybody that was peaking, you know, in 99 and where the world wanted to come and see him. I mean, they
actually wanted to go out to 351 North Yune street. And whether it was, well, I could name a whole bunch of
names, but just. I’ll start with Elon Musk, but go down the list. And they all wanted to meet Charlie, and Charlie
was happy to talk with them. And the only person I could think of otherwise was the Dalai Lama. I don’t know
that they had a lot else in common, but it was, he lived his life the way he wanted to, and he got to say what he
wanted to say. He, like I, loved having a podium again. I can’t remember any time that he was mad at me or I
was mad at him. It just didn’t happen. And calling him was fun back when long distance rates were high and
we didn’t talk as often as the years, in recent years, as we used to be on daily for long periods. And we did
keep learning and we liked learning together, but, you know, we tended to be a little smarter because as the
years went by, because we had mistakes and we had other things where we learned something.
And the fact that he and I were on the same wavelength in that respect meant that the world was still a very
interesting place to us when he got to be 99 and I got to be 93. So I don’t have a perfect answer for you there,
but I can tell you the ingredients that would go into. Sometimes people would say to me or Charlie at one of
these meetings, you know, if you had only have lunch with one person that lived over the last 2000 or so years,
you know, who would you want to have it with? Charlie says, I’ve already met all of them. You know, because
he read all the books. I mean, he, and he eliminated all the trouble of going to restaurants to meet him or
anything like that. He just went through a book and he met Ben Franklin. And he really, he was remarkable.
He said he really had no one else to meet because he’d read all their stuff and he liked Ben Franklin’s stuff
better than he liked mine. But with Ben Franklin, he just had to read about it. He didn’t have to go have lunch
with him or anything of the sort. But it’s an interesting question. What you should probably ask yourself is who
do you feel that you’d want to start spending the last day of your life with? And then figure out a way to start
meeting them, or tomorrow, and meet them as often as you can, because why wait a little last day and don’t
bother with the others? Okay, Becky.
Becky Quick: this question comes from Carol de Gend in Switzerland, in Europe, and this is for both Mr Buffett
and Mr Jain. As political instability in the world is growing with a rise in the number of armed conflicts and trade
tension, there is also increasing risk of cyberattacks. What are your views on cybersecurity insurance? Asking
this question in general, for retail, small businesses and large companies, including critical key infrastructure
such as power plants, harbors, airports, nuclear plants, etc. Do you see a potential for profit making in
cybersecurity insurances, and what are the key challenges?
Ajit Jain: Okay, let me start. Cyber insurance has become a very fashionable product these days over these
last few years. It is at least a $10 billion market right now globally, and profitability has also been fairly high. I
think profitability is at least 20% of the total premium has ended up as profit in the pockets of the insurance
bearers. Now, having said that, we at Berkshire tend to be very, very careful when it comes to taking on cyber
insurance liabilities. Actually for two reasons. One is it’s very difficult to know what is the quantum of losses
that can be subject to a single occurrence, and the aggregation potential of cyber losses, especially if some
cloud operation comes to a standstill. That aggregation potential can be huge, and not being able to have a
worst case cap on it is what scares us.
Secondly, it’s also very difficult to have some sense of what we call loss cost, or the cost of goods sold could
potentially be. It’s not just for a single loss, but for losses across over time, they have been fairly well contained
out of 100 cents of the dollar. The premium losses over the last four or five years, I think, have not been
beyond forty cents of the dollar, leaving a decent profit margin. But having said that, there’s not enough data to

be able to hang your hat on and say what your true loss cost is. So in our insurance operations, I have told the
people running the operations is, I’ve discouraged them from writing cyber insurance to the extent they need to
write it so as to satisfy certain client needs. I have told them, no matter how much you charge, you should tell
yourself that each time you write a cyber insurance policy, you’re losing money. We can argue about how much
money you’re losing, but the mindset should be you’re not making money on it, you’re losing money. And then
we should go from there. So it is good. It’s projected to be a huge business. My guess is at some point it might,
it might become a huge business, but it might be associated with huge losses. And our approach is to sort of
stay away from it right now until we can have access to some meaningful data and hang our hat on data.
Warren Buffett: Well, you’ve just made, you’ve just heard why Ajit is invaluable. Because when you insure
something, you really want to think of what, how much can you lose? And the question, I remember the first
time it was, happened, I think in 1968 when there were the riots in various cities, because I think it was the
Bobby Kennedy death that set it off for the Martin Luther King death. I’m not sure which one. But in any event,
when you write a policy, you have a limit in that policy. But the question is, what is one event? So if somebody
is assassinated in some town and that causes losses at thousands of businesses all over the country, if you’ve
written all those thousands of policies, you have one event, or do you have a thousand events? And there’s no
place where that kind of a dilemma enters into more than cyber. Because if you think about it, if, you know, let’s
say you’re writing $10 million of limit per risk, and that’s fine, if you lose 10 million for some event, you can take
it. But the problem is if that one event turns out to affect 1000 policies and somehow they’re all linked together
in some way and the courts decide that way, you’ve written something that in no way we’re getting the proper
price for and could break the company.
And I will tell you that most people want to be in anything that’s fashionable when they write insurance. And
cyber’s an easy issue. You can write a lot of it. The agents like it. You know, they’re getting the commission on
every policy they write. And you’ve got to have somebody in charge of things that understands that you may
get an aggregation of risks that you never dreamt of and maybe worse as, and some earthquake happening
someplace just because you have a whole bunch of policies with a million dollar limit. And I would say that
human nature is such that most insurance companies will get very excited and their agents will get very
excited, and it’s very fashionable and it’s kind of interesting, and as Charlie would say, it may be rat poison.
Okay, well, that cheerful view. We’ll go to station six.
Questioner: Good morning. This question is for Warren Buffett and Greg Abel. My name is Maria Preenas. I am
a retiree from Las Vegas, Nevada. I am here today as a member of (inaudible) Nevada, a group of developed
Latin leaders for the environment of justices. I am almost here representing many Latin families in Nevada who
are struggling to pay their utility bills and want access to affordable, clean electricity. I want to add today, why is
NV Energy, which is owned by the Berkshire Hathaway, building new gas plants instead of investing in solar
energy? With Nevada one and the sunniest state in the country, can I expect to see future leadership take
dangerous investments in the fossils levels more seriously? Thank you.
Warren Buffett: And thank you, Maria. Greg, you?
Greg Abel: Sure. Thank you. So, as we touched on with NV energy even earlier, there’s a lot going on there.
When I think of, there’s no question solar is a great opportunity for nv energy, and we’ll continue to utilize that
as a resource and continue to invest in it in that utility and the other utility we have in Nevada. We’re also in a
point where, when you think of a transition that’s going on within the energy sector, we are transitioning from
carbon resources to renewable resources, as was noted, but it will not occur overnight. That transition will take
many years. And as we use, be it renewable resources such as solar or wind, they are intermittent, and we do
try to combine it with batteries. But at this point in time, we cannot transition completely away from the carbon
resources.

So if I think of Nevada in the next two years, our last two coal units are. Well, actually, in the next year, our last
two coal units will retire, but we are replacing them with a new gas unit, which is truly needed to make sure that
system remains reliable and available to, to our customers. And that’s done in conjunction with our, with the
state representatives and our regulatory agencies to make sure we can serve those customers every day and
every minute. We have great examples in Iowa where at times, 100% of our energy comes from wind. And
we’re thrilled with that. And I believe we hit that, for example, on earth day. We had enough wind that we could
meet the demand of that state. But the next day, if the wind’s not blowing, we need our gas resources, our gas
plants, to fill that gap. And really, that’s the situation we still have in Nevada. So we’ll continue the transition to
renewable resources, be it solar in Nevada. And wind and other areas combined with batteries. But for the
foreseeable future, we do see gas being a very important resource to help maintain reliability and meet our
customer needs. And to meet it in an affordable way is also an important piece of that. So thank you for your
comments.
Warren Buffett: Yeah, we’ve got the capital to do whatever makes the most sense in a place like Nevada and
the Nevada, I don’t know. Each state calls their ruling commission something different, but they probably call it
the public service commission or something like that. And they’re making the decision as to what they think can
and should be done in terms of getting from where a vastly complicated utility business moves towards
something different without messing things up in the meantime and having the lights go off. And they, I think
they would probably agree with you very much, Maria, that they what they where they want to get, but they
can’t do it tomorrow because of the intermittent problems. And their job is to make sure the lights stay on. And
their job is also to move toward better sources. But solar will never be the only source of electricity because,
well, Greg may know more about this, but barring some real breakthroughs in storage and that sort of thing.
Right?
Greg Abel: Yeah. Yeah. Generally a battery right now to do it in an economical way is a four hour battery.
And when you think of the time without the sun being available, that’s a challenge. Now there’s a lot of
technology advancements and that’s stretching out and you throw dollars, a lot of things, you can accomplish
things, but the reality is that there’s a careful balance of the reliability and also balancing, as it was noted, the
rates do matter and how much customers are paying. So delicate balance of both delivering reliability but doing
it in an affordable way.
Warren Buffett: My friend Bill Gates, he’s working on shortening up that, lengthening the time the battery works
on. And so you got some very smart people working on it, but it isn’t something that you actually do overnight.
And I can understand why people want it done overnight, but it is going to take a lot of money. It’s going to take
a lot of good ideas and smart people like Bill and Greg, not me. I don’t understand why the damn lights go on
when I even turn the switch, but those, those fellas really do. And there’s plenty of them working on it and we
got plenty of money to implement it. But there are certain things that just take a certain amount of time. My
daughter hates it when I use this example, but it’s really true that you can’t create a baby in one month by
getting nine women pregnant. I mean, you may want a baby, so there are certain laws of nature that you have
to work with. Okay, Becky.
Becky Quick: this question comes from Rich. McCloskey in Dunedin, Florida. He says, Warren and Ajit, would
you let us know what you think about the car and property insurance situation in Florida as a resident? Both
seem out of control since the Florida market seems to be so mismanaged. Is this an opportunity for Berkshire?
Ajit Jain: Yeah. The Florida market, both for auto insurance and for homeowners insurance, has had a few
tough years. The two problems we face in Florida and all the risk bearers face in Florida, one is the lawyers
and the amount of corruption that takes place in the Florida market keeps skyrocketing, making it difficult for us
to price the product and make a profit. And secondly, the amount of activity in terms of storms, both the

frequency and the severity, is also so severe that the losses in Florida tend to make it very difficult for a risk
bearer to make money. Having said that, we fortunately had a very good run at Florida last year. We increased
our exposure in Florida as we talked about last year, and fortunately nothing bad happened. So a lot of our
premiums that were in the top line flew straight to the bottom line. Florida is a large market. Florida is the
market that’s subsidized by the rest of the country. I don’t think those that’s going to stand the test of time.
The Florida market, the legislators are trying to improve it. They have passed law that is bringing down the
amount of fraud that takes place in Florida. And I hope Florida will be a fairly buoyant insurance market
because at the end of the day, they do believe in the free market more than some of the other states that have
an insurance crisis, like California and New York. So, yes, Florida has a problem. Prices will go up fairly
substantially, but at the end of the day, I think we’ll achieve a degree of balance so that the risk bearers can
make a decent profit and will be deploying capital out there.
Warren Buffett: Okay. Station seven, please.
Questioner: Hi, Warren. My name is Christine Hone Garcia and I’m from Agora Hills, California. Thank you for
being an excellent teacher and imparting your wisdom to us throughout the years. What advice would you like
to share today that you believe everyone needs to hear?
Warren Buffett: Well, too bad you added that, what the rest of us would like to hear. I would say that if I had one
piece of advice, I would try to. Well, and you’re lucky to live in this country just to start with, because you’ve got
opportunities here that wouldn’t exist in much of the world. But I would like, I would like to really sort of use
Charlie’s advice of thinking how you like your obituary to read, and then start selecting the educational pass,
the social pass, whatever, that your particular situation in terms of associating, and perhaps certainly in my day,
it would have been marrying the person that would best help you do that. Well, Charlie would say you were
offering some similar benefit to the partner. But the opportunity in this country is basically limitless. When you
think of going back not that many centuries, if you were going to be a shepherd or something like that, 100
years from now, your grandson or granddaughter, was going to be a shepherd, nothing really happened. And
what has happened in the last 200 years with the combination of the industrial revolution, whether it’s science
or education or health, you name it. We are so lucky to be born when we were, the people in this room, and
many of us were lucky enough to be born in the United States as well. You’re entering the best world that’s
ever existed, and you want to find the people to share it with and the activities to participate in that fit you. And
if you get lucky, like Charlie and I did, you find things that interest you young.
But if you don’t find them right away, you keep looking. And I always tell students to take the job. I mean, find
the job that you would like to have if you didn’t need a job. And sometimes you can find that very early, and
sometimes you go through various experiences, but don’t forget what you actually are trying to do, and there’s
no place to do it like this country. Find the person that you like to share your life with in many cases. And, you
know, sometimes you get lucky into that early, and sometimes you make mistakes. But I would try to, in a very,
very general way, I would try to figure out how you’d want to look back on your life and think about yourself and
start today to go on the path that leads to that goal and expect some difficulties along the way. But if you’re
thinking that way, you’re more likely to get there. Becky.
Becky Quick: This question comes from Axel Mayerseek in Hamburg, Germany. What has changed for
Berkshire’s operating CEO’s since Greg Abel and Ajit Jain became vice chairman, for example? Can and do
the operating CEOs still reach out to Warren Buffett directly?
Warren Buffett: The answer might surprise you, but they overwhelmingly, the operating executives, well, they
prefer to talk to Greg or to Ajit. And that’s understandable because I don’t really do much and I don’t operate at
the same level of efficiency than I would have 30 years ago or 40 years ago. I don’t know the managers as well

as I would have when we were smaller and when I could get more accomplished in a day than I can now. And
you’ve got. When you’ve got somebody like Greg in Ajit, why settle for me, basically? So it’s worked out
extremely well. And I almost can’t imagine anything working better because Greg in a year accomplishes. I
mean, he sees more of them, understands more about their problems, you know, can give them suggestions.
He’s got incredible amounts of energy and nobody has more wisdom than Ajit about insurance. And they’ve got
access in insurance to him now. They had it before we stuck some of those titles on in insurance.
Whereas with Greg, he much expanded things when he became the vice chairman in charge of really
everything except insurance. If you polled our managers that fall under his jurisdiction, which would be a lot of
them, they would much prefer, unless like a few, they weren’t paying as much attention to their business and I
wouldn’t do anything about it, but Greg would. And they still like it when he does it. He can deliver news very
well to people. There will be some people. If you have. If you have 20 children and you’re very rich, you’ll have
some that will be go getters anyway, and you’ll have some that won’t. And we are a very, very rich company
and we don’t - we haven’t had a history of being very tough on people that coasted. And we’ve had some that
would do that. And Greg will do something about it. And Charlie and I wouldn’t have. Not because we didn’t
know it should be done, but because we were doing so well ourselves.
We wouldn’t make the effort. We didn’t want to change our lives that way. Plus, we slowed down in various
ways, ways physically and everything. So I would say that the number of calls I get from managers is
essentially awfully close to zero. And Greg is handling those. I don’t know quite how he does it, but we’ve got
the right person, I can tell you that. And with Ajit, he does less physical moving and the insurance people are
more used to working with Ajit, obviously, over the years. So I wouldn’t say that changing the title really
changes as much there because he was in charge of insurance anyway. You can go to a business school and
they can give you way better answers than I’ve just given you, but that’s the way we do it at Berkshire.
Ajit Jain: Yeah. If I can add a comment. From my perspective, the transition has worked out very, very well, but
I think the credit really goes to how Warren has handled the situation. And what I mean by that is, after the
transition was announced, and a lot of the operating managers used to be. They were used to calling Warren
directly on some issue or the other. After the transition, when they would continue to do so, Warren would very
skillfully, in his manner, handle them such that he would not answer what they were looking for, but at the same
time made them feel good and told them that he sort of enjoyed hearing from them and talking to them. So as
a result of which, you know, the transition took place, people got the message. They got the message and
were very responsive to it. And it’s a non issue as far as today is concerned.
Greg Abel: I would probably add. Yeah, the only thing I would add is we do have an exceptional set of
managers across both the non insurance and insurance. And, yes, Warren made it incredibly easy, but so did
they. It was a very easy transition because they cared deeply about Berkshire, they cared deeply about the
culture, and they very much wanted it to be a success. And we’re fortunate to have those managers in
insurance and non insurance.
Warren Buffett: Thank you. Yeah. What Greg is talking about is they really wanted more direction in some
cases than I gave them. You know, I mean, I just sat there reading the Wall Street Journal or whatever, and
Greg is. You know, one way or another, there are more than 24 hours in his day, and I just don’t know how he
covers the ground. He does, but he knows more about the people. We got the same feeling in terms of judging
the attractiveness of businesses and making capital decisions and that sort of thing. He’s willing to work. I
mean, I, you know, I, you know, and I couldn’t get as much done anyway. You know, what I could do in a
couple of hours, you know, may take 8 hours now. I just don’t read as fast and everything. But it’s working very
well. And this place, if anything happened to me, it would be working extremely well the next day. I don’t get
any phone calls. You can actually. We can. We can rig something up so we got some answering machine that

people think I’m still around, you know, or something. So, anyway, that’s. That’s much, much less than you’d
learn in business school, but that’s the way we do it at Berkshire. Okay. Station eight.
Questioner: Dear Warren, Greg and Ajit, thank you for having us. Your teachings have not only made us better
investors, but more importantly, better people. Thank you for that. My name is Rajiv Agarwal, and I am from
New Jersey. I run an India focused fund called Do Darshi India Fund. My question is related to India. Indian
economy and Indian equities have done quite well in the last 5, 10, 20 years. It is the fifth largest economy and
will be the third largest in the next few years. My question is, is Berkshire actively looking for opportunities in
the Indian equity market and what will allow you to buy anything meaningful there? Thank you.
Warren Buffett: Yeah. Well, that’s a very good question. And obviously India, you know, I’m sure there are
loads of opportunities in a place like India. And the question is, do we have any advantage in either insights
into those businesses or contexts, it will make possible some transaction that might what the parties in India
would particularly want us to participate. I would say that that’s something that a more energetic management
at Berkshire could pursue, because we do have the reputation. Now, Berkshire is known, not like it’s known in
the United States, but it’s known around the world. And, you know, our Japanese experience has been
fascinating in that respect. So there may be an unexplored or unattended to opportunity in that area. I’m not
the one to do it, but that may be something that in the future, it might be opportunities. There are opportunities.
The question is, does Berkshire have some kind of advantage in actually pursuing those opportunities against,
particularly against people that are using other people’s money, that where they get paid based on assets
managed or something of this sort. I mean, there are plenty of people in the game who are buying and running
businesses that do not really have our philosophy. I mean, they’re going to get rich no matter what happens,
and their payment may be based on how much they buy rather than what they buy. So we’ll see how the next
management plays the game out at Berkshire. Fortunately, you don’t have too long to wait on that. Generally, I
feel fine, but I know a little bit about actuarial tables, and I just. Well, I would say this. I shouldn’t be taking on
any four year employment contracts like several people doing in this world in an age where you can’t be quite
that sure where you’re going to be in four years. Okay. But you’re absolutely right about, if you were energetic,
had some way to become a buyer or a party that people particularly wanted to do business with. Japan was
great, and India could be great, but India and Japan aren’t the same. I mean, I don’t adapt myself terribly well
to different cultures, and some people are really good at it, and almost anybody’s better than I am. But I
stumbled into one or two, but that could happen in act two of Berkshire Hathaway. Becky.
Becky Quick: this is a question from Rafael DePino from Spain. Berkshire has grown tremendously thanks to,
and among other things, its architect, Mr Munger, and you, its general contractor, were all tremendously
thankful to you for taking us along the way. We are aware that both of you and many others have spent an
enormous amount of time ensuring Berkshire’s culture provides a solid footing on which to grow the building.
You also currently have a very talented bench of what we may label as subcontractors. Mr Abel, Mr Jain, Mr
Combs, and Mr Weschler. However, for a long time, you’ve had the advantage that talented subcontractors
have wanted to work with a once in a generation architect and general contractor.
How do you envision Berkshire will overcome the loss of said advantage when the contractor bench needs to
be renewed again? And what are potential renovation works in this great building that may necessitate a new
architect?
Warren Buffett: Yeah, well, that’s a great question, which Charlie and I obviously talked a lot about over time.
And of course, Berkshire, to the extent it remains the sort of entity that it is, will not need to attract people very
often. It would be absolutely crazy for anybody, for our board of directors to ever pick anybody to run this
business that thought, you should retire at 65. It may be that they should retire the next day when you learn
what they’re really like managing something, or it may turn that you want to keep them around till they really

start being affected by old age. Which hits different people at different times, but it hits everybody eventually.
It’s very likely if the directors, and it’s very tough, because they will be acting against conventional wisdom,
which is always difficult. But I think we’ve got the group on that, and they will not have to make a decision very
often. If they pick the right CEO, that’s 99% of the job of the directors. And if they. The other 1% is, do you
have a good method to correct it if you’ve made a wrong decision? And that’s extremely hard to do in our
present system. It’s not impossible, but it’s just not something that happens. It’s too good a job to be a director,
to try and throw over somebody, particularly if you can use the money from directorships and you want to be on
other boards and everything. We do not have a perfect system in terms of boards or directors at all. And it’s. It
doesn’t operate at all, well, I shouldn’t say at all, but it doesn’t operate as people may think. It generally
operates. We’ve really got the problem solved for the next 20 years unless something untoward happens. And
if something untoward happens, then. Then the directors need to find, probably within our own organization,
somebody that they’ve got confidence in to maintain the special advantages we have over another 20 years
period.
There’s various things that are low probabilities, but you still have to think about them, and we are in that
position now. Now, if you asked me whether, if something happened to Greg today, everybody says, don’t
travel on the same plane. The thing to do is not travel in the same auto. Planes don’t go down that often. Autos
crash all the time. I’ve seen all these corporate policies on that, which are kind of crazy when you think about
the real risk. But in any event, Greg is going to have to tell the directors about what if something happened
tomorrow. He has to tell the directors about what should be done if anything happens to him. And that’s not an
easy thing to do, and I don’t have - well, it will be his decision, and then the director’s really to decide whether
he’s made the right one, but he will make the right one.
And what you really have to hope is that you get lucky on how long managers stick around. I mean, you might
need three in the century, and you might need six or seven, but the answer is you need a little luck, and you
need some break in the mortality tables. But we’ve got an entity that if you really aspire to be a certain kind of
manager, of a really large entity, there’s nothing like it in the world. So we’ve got something to offer the person
who we want to have. It’s sort of like Charlie said about marrying the best person that will have you. Well,
we’ve got something that the right person would want to marry, basically, in terms of Berkshire. And if we get
the wrong person, then the directors have to do something about it, and that probably won’t happen. But it’s
always a contingency, a possibility, I should say. Greg, having been put on the spot like that, you don’t have to
name anybody now, but I’m sure the crowd would love it and make news.
Greg Abel: Well, the only thing I would add, Warren, is, and it’s really how the comment started, was around
culture. The culture we have at Berkshire and that being our shareholders, being our partners and our
managers of our business, having that ownership mentality, that’s never going to change and that will attract
the right managers at every level. So I think, as Warren said, we have a very special company in Berkshire, but
it’s that culture that makes it special, and that’s not going to change.
Warren Buffet: Okay, station nine. I’m never sure where nine is.
Questioner: Hi, I’m Sherman Lam, a Berkshire shareholder, and I work for family office in Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia. Just really happy to see you, Warren and the team. And where I come from, you’re a hero. And both
you and Charlie have positively transformed mine and many, many other Malaysians and Southeast Asians
lives, not only financially, but also in how we navigate our lives and relationships. Thank you very, very, very
much.
Warren Buffett: Thank you. Thank you. That makes us feel good.

Questioner: Question is, what have your team’s greatest learnings been on business, capital allocation, stock
picking and portfolio allocation throughout the COVID-19 pandemic period over the last five years? And,
Warren, appreciate it if you can get your views, as well as your representations on Ted and Todd, as well as
directly from Greg and Ajit, too, on their respective businesses.
Warren Buffett: Thank you. Yeah, I don’t think I want to give individual appraisals, but really what you’re doing
is in terms of capital allocation, which is my job, I don’t go out and sell insurance policies or anything of the
sort. And you represent a group of shareholders like we do represent. We are totally clear on our mission. And,
you know, it may be that other people don’t agree with them, but I would say that in a great many places, you
know, I just don’t agree with their mission. I would say that, for example, that anybody that wants to retire at 65
would be disqualified from being CEO of Berkshire. They might get retired the next day if they were the wrong
person. But there’s just certain things we don’t want, and we’re well fixed now. And that the odds are very
good, but far from certainty that that takes care of the next 20 years. But you have to provide for the
contingency. And there are several people on the board that know what I would do on that, but it’s up to Greg.
But if Greg and I go at the same time, then you’ll move into making another decision.
There are a few people who know my thoughts on that, but the job of the director is then to come up with the
right CEO, and the right CEO can’t make a terrible business great. Tom Murphy, who was the best, he was the
best business manager I’ve ever known. And Tom Murphy, you know, he said the real key was buying the right
business. And now Murph brought a million other attributes to it after that. But, you know, Charlie said, what
was this? He had a saying on that.
But basically, we could have brought in Tom Murphy and told him his job was to run the textile business, and it
would have done a little bit better, but it still would have failed. And one of the reasons I stuck with the textile
business as long as I did was that I liked Ken Chase so much, and I thought he was a terrific guy, and he was a
very good manager. If he’d been a jerk, you know, we’d have quit the textile business much faster, and we’d
have been better off.
So the answer was for him to get in the TV business, like Murph had done and had supported. You know,
Murph figured that out early, and he started with a pathetic operation, which was a VHF in Albany, New York,
competing against GE and everything. And he was operating out of a home for retired nuns, and he only
painted the side that faced the street. He had one car dashing around town, and he called it news truck
number six. But from that, he built an incredible company, and he built it because he was the best manager I’ve
ever met. But beyond that, he was in a good business. And the key will be to find another Tom Murphy and
then hand them a bunch of good businesses, and he or she will know what to do with it.
Now, that’s not as precise as you would get in most companies, but you really can’t get more precise than that.
I mean, you can have committees and management consultants and everybody. But it wasn’t a management
consultant that hired Tom Murphy. And I forget whether he was doing. His sales volume was a couple thousand
a week at first. And then as soon as he hit, that was his goal. It got to 2000, he says. Now my goal is 3000. He
kept doing that, surpassed all these people, like CBS and ABC, that only had the world by the tail. And it was
just a wonderful lesson in life to get. Just to be able to view something like that. I learned an awful lot from what
he said to me, but I just learned by watching somebody like him operate. I mean, it’s like watching a great
golfer, a great tennis player, then you ought to learn something about the kind of swing you’re trying to develop
or something of sort. So that’s not a great answer for you. But so far, it’s worked, and I think it works.
I’m very sure it works with Greg, and it’s up to people in the future when, you know, I’m underground or
wherever they put me, to really make a decision every 20 years or something like that. On average, it’s the
right decision, but correct it if it turns out to be the wrong decision. That’s what a board of directors is for. And

we’ve got the people on the board that really understand that responsibility. They take it seriously, but they
don’t take themselves too seriously, and so therefore, they don’t necessarily wanna do a lot of things just to
look busy. And they aren’t using us as a stepping stone to get on other boards, but we’ve got people that really
believe in what we’re doing, and they’re the ones that are going to have to make this place work. And if they
got lucky on Greg’s mortality, they can do just what everyone else did and go to sleep for 20 years or so and
then make another decision. And Berkshire has every tool in the world available to be what it is now and
continue to be what it is now.
I mean, we’ve gotten from 20 million of net worth to 570 billion. And, you know, we. There aren’t as many
things to do, but we can do a few big things better than anybody else can do. And there will be occasional
times when we’re the only one willing to act. And at those times, we want to be sure that the US government
thinks we’re an asset to the situation and not a liability or a supplicant, as the banks were in say in 2008 and ‘9,
they were all tarred with the same brush. But we want to be sure that the brush that determines our future is
not tarred. And I think we’re in the. I don’t think anybody’s got a better position to do it than Berkshire. Becky?
Becky Quick: This question’s from Johan Halen, who writes, you’re sitting on $168 billion of cash, which he told
us today is now more than $182 billion. His questions are, one, what is Buffett waiting for? And two, why not at
least deploy some of it?
Warren Buffett: Well, I think that’s pretty easy to answer. I don’t think anybody sitting at this table has any idea
of how to use it effectively. And therefore, we don’t use it. And we don’t use it now at 5.4%. But we wouldn’t
use it if it was. If it was at 1%. Don’t tell the Federal Reserve that, but prefer it. We only swing at pitches we
like. And if anybody tried to swing at every pitch, or felt that because they hadn’t swung at a pitch for the last
two pitches, they ought to swing at the third one or something like that. There are times, and obviously. But I
would say this, I would not like to be running 10 billion now. 10 million. I think we could. I think Charlie or I
could earn high returns on, because I think there are just a few things that happen on a very, very small scale.
But if we had 10 billion, I wouldn’t basically see many more opportunities than we found now. It’s true that
something like Japan, we could have done, if the company had had a 30 or 40 billion, and we’d make. We’d
have had great returns on equity. But if I saw one of those now, I’d do it for Berkshire. It isn’t like I’ve got a
hunger strike or something like that going on. It’s just that things aren’t attractive, and there’s certain ways that
can change, and we’ll see whether they do. Okay. Station ten.
Questioner: Mr Buffett, this is an incredible meeting that you host every year. My name is Sean Cawley. I am a
real estate agent with Berkshire Hathaway Home Services in Arizona and California. My mother, Cindy, my
brother, and my two sisters all sell real estate with Berkshire Hathaway Home Services for many years. We
love being a part of the Berkshire family, and along with the 70,000 other agents that sell real estate for the
company. Mr Buffett, Home Services of America recently settled our class action lawsuit, regarding
commissions, for $250 million last week. This dollar amount is about 100 million more than Keller Williams’
166.5 million, more than Anywhere Real estate, which is Better Homes and Gardens and Coldwell Banker. As
a realtor with Berkshire Hathaway home services in multiple markets, and a shareholder who’s been coming to
this meeting for 15 straight years, that’s one of the reasons I got involved with real estate, is because of this
meeting. What are your thoughts on buying and selling a home in light of this recent settlement? And maybe
ask the note to Greg and Ajit, too. Would you consider a Berkshire agent when buying your next home?
Warren Buffett: I don’t buy them that often, as some people have noted. I certainly would consider him but I say
the probability of that happening is low. And I really appreciate the fact you’ve joined up with us, but I’m going
to. In terms of the settlement, I mean, Greg kept me informed, but I turned it over 100% to him. So, Greg, you
want to talk about it?

Greg Abel: Sure. So, thank you for you and your family for being an agent and working for our company,
Berkshire Hathaway Home Services. I think there’s a few questions in there. One, there’s no question the
industry will go through some transitions because of that settlement. Ours and the every other major player in
the industry settled. The National Association of Realtors settled for more than 400 million. So effectively
everybody was swept up in that settlement, and it did set the grounds for both home services and for the
industry to move forward. There’s a lot of changes that happen in, or are being proposed associated with that
settlement. The one thing that I think you hopefully would absolutely agree with, the real estate agent, is still an
important part of these transactions.
It’s the one time in our lives where we make these massive investments, and having that counsel and guidance
is critical. And that’s really what our business and those other businesses rely on. How the commission
structures change and how it’s negotiated, which is really what the settlement was. It was no longer that a
buyer would automatically pay a commission agent to the to the selling agent. That now has to be negotiated.
That’ll impact things, but I think the realtors will continue to be a very important part of that. And I think home
services and the industry will remain very relevant. And then the only thing I would share with our shareholders
on a broader basis is that obligation resides with Home Services and can be met by Home Services. And that
was an important condition because they were also pursuing Berkshire and Berkshire Hathaway Energy. And
we said, you can pursue us separately, but that settlement will reside with Home Services and be an obligation
of that. And they decided the ultimate settlement. And. We’ll go forward from there. So, Warren, any other
comments?
Warren Buffett: Well, yeah, I’ve sold two houses in the last, well, the last 93 years, and I’ve bought one that I
still have, but I obviously bought the other two, and I have not negotiated down the commission, even though
the last one sold for 7 million or something like that. People do negotiate down commissions to some extent,
but I can tell you, I’ve looked at the figures and I think the system has really worked out very well. When I got
out of school, they had what they called FSBO for sale by owner and so I’ve been involved to some degree in
watching the whole system operate, and I know what our average agent makes. I know how long they work on
things sometimes that don’t materialize.
I don’t think we’ll end up with a better system, but it’s up to Greg and the people at Home Services we work
through here. But I like our agency group, and we’ve got a very large number of real estate agents, and I’ve
encouraged the expansion we’ve done in the real estate brokerage business. It was just one or two operations
when we bought Berkshire Hathaway Energy, and we really built up quite a company. And I think it’s a very
fundamental business. You need help - 90% of the people need help in buying a home or selling one. And I’ve
watched it operate all my life and been involved with lots of people who have been in the business. But there
was a decision in court, and I told Greg to handle it, whatever seemed best to him.
And I’m quite. I’m perfectly happy with the way we’ve handled - I think I’m surprised at the decision, but we get
surprised in decisions in the insurance business lots of times. I mean, just think of the various things we faced,
and when 911 came along, we never thought something like that could happen, but it happened, and then we
didn’t know what was one event or more events. If they closed down the New York Stock Exchange, a bunch of
brokers. Well, all kinds of people lose their jobs or lose their income for a while. Is that one event or multiple
events? There’s all kinds of things come up in business, and we just play the ball wherever we find it. And I
was surprised by the decision. Was it in Missouri? Missouri, yes. Yeah. But we’ve gotten surprised by some
other decisions, and we’ll keep doing sensible things as we move forward. Greg, do you want to.
Greg Abel: No, I think the only thing I would add back, maybe to how the model has changed. And he asked
one. Yes, we’ll always, I can’t speak for Ajit, but we’ll always use Home Services agents. But it’s interesting. I
have bought a home abroad. I lived over in the United Kingdom, in Newcastle, running our utility over there.

And it is a completely different experience to buy a home outside of the US. Our agents take great
responsibility for the whole transaction. In the US, they put, as Warren said, time and capital at risk to ensure
the transaction closes. And when you do close, they make sure what you bought, you actually what you
thought you were purchasing, you end up with, and that’s not the way it is always around the world. And there
are more affordable models, but it’s the old saying, you get what you pay for. So I think our real estate agents
still provide incredible value within our business, and as Warren touched on it, it’ll survive. The form may be a
little bit different, but there’s no question it’ll continue to thrive.
Warren Buffett: Yeah, we still will want to buy real estate brokerages at the right price, and I hope we’re bigger
in the industry ten years from now and 20 years from now than we are currently. And I did sell a house for 7
million. I did not negotiate the 6% down, and I feel I got my money’s worth and then some. And I’m cheap by
nature, so it isn’t that I’m careless about it. I just. I got my money’s worth. And so let’s move on to becky.
Becky Quick: This question’s for Warren and Ajit. It’s from Jeff Oyster. As a Berkshire and Tesla shareholder, I
would like to hear your thoughts on the potential financial effects to GEICO, assuming Elon Musk delivers on
his fully autonomous driving goal. On Tesla’s most recent earnings call, Elon said, if you’ve got, at scale, a
statistically significant amount of data that shows conclusively that the autonomous car has, let’s say, half the
accident rate of a human driven car, I think that’s difficult to ignore. Assuming Elon succeeds in reducing
accidents by 50% versus human drivers, wouldn’t auto insurance rates fall to reflect the reduced underwriting
risks, thereby adversely impacting GEICO’s revenues and float and perhaps margins, too?
Warren Buffett: Well, yeah. Well, let’s just take the extreme example. Let’s say there are only going to be three
accidents in the United States next year for some crazy reason that anything that reduces accidents is going to
reduce costs. But that’s been harder to do than people have done before. But obviously. But if it really
happens, the figures will show it, and our data will show it, and the prices will come down. There have been a
lot of people talk about doing that in the past.
I mean, General Motors used to be very big in the insurance business, and when Uber first started, they used
some firm, which now is, I think Ajit will confirm they’re close to bankruptcy now, aren’t they? Because of taking
things on at the wrong prices. Is that true?
Ajit: Yep. Yeah. Yeah.
Warren Buffett: Insurance always looks easier than it is, and it’s so much fun because you get the money at the
start, you know, and then you find out whether you’ve done something stupid later on. But it’s a very tempting
business when somebody hands you money and you hand them a little piece of paper. But really knowing
whether you’re - I mean, if accidents get reduced 50%, it’s going to be good for society and it’s going to be bad
for insurance companies’ volume. But, you know, but for society is what we’re looking for so far.
You might find it kind of interesting. I mean, the number of people killed per 100 million passenger miles driven.
I think it actually, when I was young, it was like 15, but even post world war two, it only fell like seven or
thereabouts and Ralph Nader probably has done more for the american consumer than just about anybody in
history because that seven or six has now come down to under two. And I don’t think it would have come down
that way without him. There have been some kind of fluke figures of what people did during the pandemic,
which are quite interesting because they, they didn’t drive immediately, they didn’t drive as many miles, but
they drove more dangerously, didn’t they? Is that right, Ajit?
Ajit Jain: Yeah. Yeah. So the point I want to make in terms of Tesla and the fact that they feel that because of
their technology, the number of accidents do come down, and that is certainly provable. But I think what needs

to be factored in as well is the repair cost of each one of these accidents has skyrocketed. So if you multiply
the number of accidents times the cost of each accident, I’m not sure that total number has come down as
much as Tesla would like us to believe. Tesla has been toying with the idea of writing insurance directly or
indirectly. And so far it hasn’t really sort of been much of a success. Time will tell. But I think, you know,
automation just shifts a lot of the expense from the operator to the equipment provider.
Warren Buffett: Okay, we’re getting close to noon when we’re going to break for lunch. I just want to tell
everybody that I would appreciate it very much if they will get in their seats and be ready at 1:00 when we
reconvene, because we will have another very short little movie and we’ll just have a little explanation of
something that I think will be of interest, certainly of interest to me. So I would like to. We will break promptly at
12, and I would like everybody to really make an attempt to be in their seat and quiet at 1:00 and if you can’t do
that, if you’ll wait a few minutes and watch in the halls and all that. But we do not want to be seating people
and have people milling here at 1:00 and just like a play in New York or something. It’ll take a few minutes and
only a few minutes to cover what. We’re going to it at 1:00 but we don’t want to be seating people during that
period. But now let’s. We’ll go on till 12:00 and then we’ll have a break until 01:00 and we will go to station 11.
Questioner: My name is Humphrey Liu, and I am from Charlottesville, Virginia. I asked the question last year
and wish to pose it again. It can be considered a follow up. There is something to be said for traditions.
It is the same question, but it is a changing and different world we are in. Looking at global trends, it
increasingly does seem that zero emission vehicles may have finally reached the cusp of massive adoption.
Do you see any opportunities in this space, either in specific vehicle manufacturers or in related technologies?
As an addendum, I will note that Berkshire has very relevant interests in energy, pilot, flying J and BYD.
Warren Buffett: Thank you. Yeah, well, we will. I hope you’re right. And massive adoption has been sort of a
moving target so far, but I hope we get there. But Berkshire would not be, I don’t think that we bring any special
talent to that field. You’ve got vehicle manufacturers, and I would certainly not know how to pick the winners in
an industry like that. But I’ll be delighted if there are some winners. But don’t count on us foreseeing who the
winners will be, and don’t count on us for predicting when something will happen. It obviously has been a
moving target so far, and it is an incredible problem that society faces, and it may be that governments are not
very good at solving it for a while.
All of climate change, it’s got a terrible problem just in the fact that the United States particularly has been the
one that’s caused the problem the most. And then we’re asking poorer societies to say, well, you’ve got to
change the way you live, because we live the way we did. But that really hasn’t been settled yet. It’s a
fascinating problem to me, but I don’t have anything to add to how you really slice through the world.
When I was born in 1930, there were just essentially 2 billion people in the world population statistic. Now
there’s 8 billion. Now, if you’d asked anybody in 1930, if you take the 50 smartest people in the world and you
said, what’s the optimum population for the world. When you’re 93 years old, they would have not said 8 billion.
There wouldn’t be anybody close to it. But we did it. Now we’re reaping some of the consequences of having
done that, and we got the benefits in the United States. I’m exaggerating here to some extent, but the
developed world basically got it. And then we’re telling a whole bunch of other people that we want them to
change the way they live because of the way we lived. So we will see what happens with it. But that’s a
problem that is very, very, very hard to solve among a couple hundred countries. And I really don’t have
anything to contribute on it.
And now I’ve got instructions from the thing, the monitor in front of me. I would like to introduce one person
here that has, you all know, because she’s been here so many times, but my friend Carol Loomis, who is now,
well, she’s going to be 95 on June 25. You can send presents, care of our office. And Carol has edited the

Berkshire annual report since 1977. There we are. And there’s, there are two points I’d like to mention. Every
year I give Carol a little item for a bracelet that is a replica of the front page of the report that year and their
different colors and all of that sort of thing. And so she now has, what, since 1977, what, 47 of them. I think
she’s put ten on each one. But I’ve always wondered if she put them all on one arm, whether one arm would
now be four or five inches longer than the other. But I’m sure she foresaw that. But I want to reveal one other.
Well, I want to ask one more question while Carol was here, because I’m sure most everybody in this audience
grew up like I did, knowing that Ty Cobb’s lifetime batting average was 367. I mean, he’s the leader among
everyone, and it may be that that record is never broken. And Ty Cobb, 367’s immortal. But Carol has a
distinction that probably most of you don’t know, but she dated Ty Cobb.
And Carol was officed at 6th Avenue and 50th street in the Time Life building. And NBC was right across the
street in, in Rockefeller center. And the quiz shows became the hit of tv. And Carol, being the kind of person
she is, walked across the street at lunchtime and went on the quiz show of the late 1950s. And they gave her
the, they gave her the questions regarding baseball. And Carol answered them all correctly, of course, she was
encyclopedic on all kinds of things. So she knew all the answers. And she proceeded. And she was single at
the time. And she proceeded back to her office at fortune. And at some point she got a phone call from,
sounded like a fairly young man in Georgia. And he said, my uncle is Ty Cobb, and he would like to take you to
lunch at 21. And so Carol went to lunch with Ty Cobb at 21. And I think he subsequently had one more lunch.
And then she decided to call it off.
But those of you who follow baseball may have noticed that in the 1990s, they found that the statistics had
been faulty when Ty Cobb played. And that he actually only batted 366, that there were a couple of bad bats
that didn’t count. So the real question I want to know from Carol, and I think she should maybe tell us, is that
would she have dated Ty Cobb if she not - I mean, I know she wouldn’t have. I know she wouldn’t have dated
Ty Cobb if his batting average had been 300 or something like that. But where was the cut off point at which
she would have told Ty Cobb to stay in Atlanta and forget about coming up to New York? And if Carol would. If
anybody has a microphone, Carol would care to express herself on that question. It’s the unanswered question
that I’ve had and all inquiring minds have had, and only she knows the answer. And she’s with her daughter.
She married a wonderful guy, John Lewis. And Barbara’s. Barbara’s with her. I’m sure Barbara’s been always
wanting to ask this question, but it’s kind of tough when you’re in the family. But I’m sort of a non anxious guy.
Older, in front of a lot of people. Carol. Or are we gonna have Barbara’s guests?
Barbara: Either one will. She would have been happy to go either. Right. Thank you.
Warren Buffett: Carol is the best business writer. She comes from a town of called Camp, Missouri. I don’t
know, around a thousand, probably. She never took an accounting course. And she ended up becoming the
best business writer in the United States. You know, she didn’t want to be an editor, actually. I mean, she could
have done other things at Fortune, but she just plain liked writing business stories. And like I say, that nobody
came close to her. And she started from scratch. But in 1977, I asked her to edit my report, and she turned out
to be just a good an editor as she was a writer. And all the way through this year, including this year, Carol has
edited the Berkshire report. And to the extent anybody enjoys reading them. Let’s give a hand to Carol.
Okay. And I’ve been told to show a video right before you go to lunch, because it’s only 30 some seconds, and
then we’ll talk a little bit about more about it when we come. So if we’ll dim the lights, we will have showing
what a Berkshire shareholder did when she sold us a billion dollars worth of stock the other day. And you’ll
meet somebody that I hope is, I know she is the prototype. She may have more zeroes, but she’s the prototype
of a good many Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. It’ll be the first thing we talk about when we come back. But
some of you may have noticed whenever it was a few weeks back, when Ruth Gottesman gave $1 billion to
Albert Einstein to take care of all of us, and Ruth doesn’t like a lot of attention drawn to herself.

But here’s how they felt at Albert Einstein when they announced that Ruth Gottesman had just made a decision
to take care of all of the costs of education at Albert Einstein, and it’s going to be in perpetuity. So let’s just
show the film.
Video: I’m happy to share with you that starting in August this year, the Albert Einstein College of Medicine will
be tuition free.
Warren Buffett: And that’s why Charlie and I have had such fun running Berkshire. She transferred a billion
dollars to other people. She happened to do it with Berkshire stock, and, you know, they offered to rename the
school after and everything like that. But she said, Albert Einstein. That’s a pretty good name to start with. So
there’s no ego involved in it, no nothing. She just decided that she’d rather have 100 plus, closer to 150
eventually, of students be able to start out debt free and proceed in life. And she did it happily, and she did it
without somebody asking, you know, name it, you know, put my name on for all four sides of neon lights, and I
salute her. So let’s all have lunch, and we’ll come back and talk a little bit more about that. Thanks.
Afternoon Session
Warren Buffett: So please take your seats. We’re going to finish at three, so the sooner we start, the sooner
more chance we’ll have to talk about various questions you may have. I just like to follow on, however, with that
film we showed just before we left for lunch, because it says something about Berkshire. There are all kinds of
public companies and wealthy public companies throughout America. And there are certainly cases where in
one family, somebody has made a very large amount of money and is devoting it to philanthropy, or much of it
to philanthropy, such as the Walton family would be the number one thing in Walmart. And certainly Bill did the
same thing, Bill Gates did the same thing at Microsoft. But what is unusual about Berkshire is that a very
significant number of Berkshire shareholders located all over the United States, not just in Omaha, but the
number of different Berkshire holders who have contributed $100 million or more to their local charities, usually
with people not knowing about it. I think it’s many multiples of any other public company in the country. It’s not
more multiples than those put a whole lot into philanthropy, and I don’t know the details of the family, but clearly
there’s a huge sum of money that the Walmart family, I’m sure, has done all kinds of things philanthropic and
will continue to do it.
But I don’t think you’ll find any company where a group of shareholders who aren’t related to each other. So
many of them have done something along the lines of what Ruth did a few weeks ago, just to exchange a little
piece of paper that they’ve held for five decades, and they’ve lived well themselves. They haven’t denied their
family anything, but they don’t feel that they have to create a dynasty or anything, and they give it back to
society. And a great many do it anonymously. They do it in many states to some extent. We see some
concentration of it in Nebraska, because generally, when you’re giving away a lot of money, they call it, in the
philanthropic world, they call it absorption capacity. And the truth is, it’s very hard to give away a billion dollars
to $10 at a time to people who are needy or something of the sort. And so large institutions have this
absorption capacity, which tend to be universities or colleges or that sort of thing. And some philanthropies are
much more imaginative than others. But the one thing I’ve never.
Well, most of them want to do it anonymously, so I can’t tell their specific stories. But I have to say one thing
that was astounding is that the same day we bought a billion dollars worth of Berkshire class A stock from
Ruth. So that. And I guess we were actually buying it from the school at that point because he’s just given
them. So the transaction was with them. But Mark Millard in our office bought a billion dollars from them, but he
also bought $500 million worth of stock from somebody else that nobody will ever have heard of and in a
different state. And I won’t elaborate beyond that, but we have had a very significant number of people, and
there’s more to come. And obviously, they had to be people that came in early, or their parents did, or their

grandparents did, but they’ve all lived good lives. They haven’t denied themselves anything. You know, they
have second homes, and they. But they generally, in fact, I would say almost universally, they - people knew
them in the community, everything. But they’ve used what they accomplished, what they saved.
They denied themselves consumption. That’s what savings are, is consumption deferred. And they’ve given,
they’ve financed everything all over the country. And usually they like to do it anonymously. I outed my sister
when I wrote about her in the annual report, but Bertie’s here today. I told her she should wear a T-shirt or
something, said no solicitors allowed or something, but they just do it. And it’s really both, Charlie and I felt it’s
really fun to work for a group of people like that rather than for index funds or for hedge funds or whatever it
may be. I mean, you’re just seeing what people actually - it sort of restores your faith in humanity, that people
defer their own consumption within a family for decades and decades, and then they could do something like.
And they will. I think it may end up being 150 people to pursue different lives and talented people and diverse
people to become a dream of being a doctor and not have to incur incredible debt to do it, or whatever may be
the case. There’s a million different examples. And I want you to know that you’re a unique, actually, group of
shareholders among public companies, as far as I know, in terms of the way you’ve deferred your own
consumption while living fine to help other people. And it takes a lot of years, but it can really amount to
something very substantial.
And what Ruth did, was roughly my age, she looked at a little piece of paper which actually was a claim check
on the output of others in the future. And she said instead of the output being for her, that the output would be
for a continuing stream of people, for decades and decades and decades to come, that we’re having a different
life in the pursuit of becoming doctors than they otherwise would have. And Berkshire has been, of course, her
husband Sandy contributed substantially to Berkshire’s record. Sandy was a wonderful partner to have. So it
was both input by him, and then there was deferred consumption by his family. And then there was ultimately
this final gift to Albert Einstein. And like I say, the same day, there’s only 500 million it’ll go to in a different way.
But it’s happening all over, and I don’t think any, any companies like that. So I just want to tell you that it’s
inspiring to work for a group of shareholders. And Becky, go to it.
Becky Quick: All right, the next question comes from Slavin Vucelbrot. As CEO, will Mr Abel be in charge of the
portfolio of common stocks that Mr Buffett has been managing, or will this function be exercised by Mr Combs
and Mr Weschler? As investing could be defined as the discipline of relative selection, can major capital
allocation decisions, such as large acquisitions, be separated from the common stock selection process?
Warren Buffett: Yeah, I would say that decision actually will be made when I’m not around, and I may try and
come back and haunt them if they do it differently. But I’m not sure the Ouija board will get that job done. So
that job, I’ll never know the answer on whether it get covered, but I feel very comfortable about the fact that it
will be made by a board, that they’ve got loads of brainpower, they’ve got a dedication to an unusual institution,
and they will figure things out. But I would say that if I were on that board and were making the decision, I
would probably, knowing Greg, I would just leave. I would leave the capital allocation to Greg. And he
understands businesses extremely well. And if you understand businesses, you understand common stocks. I
mean, if you really know how business works, you are an investment manager. How much you manage,
maybe just your own funds or maybe other people. And if you really are primarily interested in getting assets
under management, which is where the money is, you know, you don’t really have to understand that sort of
thing. But that’s not the case with Ted or Todd, obviously. But I think the responsibility ought to be entirely with
Greg.
The responsibility has been with me, and I farmed out some of it. And I used to think differently about how that
would be handled, but I think the responsibility should be that of the CEO. And whatever that CEO decides
may be helpful in effectuating that responsibility. That’s up to him or her to decide at the time they’re running

the money. So I would say that my thinking on that has developed to some extent as the sums have grown so
large at Berkshire, and we do not want to try and have 200 people around that are managing a billion each of
just doesn’t work. And I think that when you’re handling the sums that we will have, you’ve got to think very
strategically about how to do very big things, and I think Greg is capable of doing that. I think I’ve missed a lot
of stuff in the past, so I’m actually wiser about doing that now. But I, you know, I would do it better this time
around in 2008 and ‘9, if something akin to that happened. But it won’t be exactly like 2008 or ‘9, you can be
sure of that. But you also can say that there will be times when having huge sums available extremely quickly.
Maybe it will be once every five years, probably be more like once every ten years or something. But as the
world gets more sophisticated, complicated, and intertwined, more can go wrong. And there’s no sense going
through here exploring the possibilities of the different things that could happen. But you do want to be able to
act when it happens. And I think the chief executive should be somebody that can weigh buying businesses,
buying stocks, doing all kinds of things that might come up at a time when nobody else is willing to move. It
wasn’t that people didn’t have money in 2008. It’s that they were paralyzed. And we did have the advantage of
having some capital and a willingness and eagerness,even, to act, and a government that, in effect, looked at
us as an asset instead of a liability. And I think that all of those qualities will be even more important as our
capital pile grows. So I think Greg may have even more fun than I had in a period when extraordinary things
were happening and we were the logical place to go. You never know whether it’ll be next week, next year,
next decade, but you won’t be, you know, it won’t be a century from now, that is for sure, and be more
intertwined. It’s sophisticated. The world financial situation gets the more vulnerable it gets in a certain sense. It
solves a lot of small problems, but it leaves it more vulnerable to large problems. Greg, does that bother you at
all or not?
Greg Abel: Without directly answering the question, I think there’s one important thing, is I think as we go
through any transition, it’s important to know that the capital allocation principles that Berkshire lives by today
will continue to survive, Warren. And I think that’s the thing I’d want to communicate, that we have our
operating businesses, insurance, non insurance, we’re going to cap that. We’ll provide them the capital
necessary to be successful and grow, if it’s appropriate. At the same time, we’re expecting return of capital
from them when they have excess cash. And then, as we’ve discussed, or you’ve touched on always looking at
potentially new businesses as a whole or in a piece, and as you’ve always highlighted, and I fully agree, it’s,
we’ll always look at equities as we’re investing in a business, either 1% or 100%, but we’re looking at the
business, we’re looking at the economic prospects of that business, how sustainable it is, and what it will look
like ten years from now. And is our, the capital we originally put in at exponential risk, or where’s that risk set,
that profile.
And then, of course, and then we’ll obviously continue to always put excess cash in the safest investment there
is in us treasuries, knowing we want to maintain that fortress of a balance sheet for two reasons. One, to act,
but also to always protect our shareholders. We want to maintain the position Berkshire is in now, realistically
for to ensure it endures.
Warren Buffett: Well, when he says that, it makes me wish I’d stayed around to be number two instead of
number one in this process over the years. It’s, you know, it doesn’t get more fun than what we’re doing, and
we’re better positioned than ever before. We’re not positioned though, however, to earn extraordinary returns
versus what american business generally earns. I would hope we could be slightly better, but nobody’s going to
be dramatically better over the next century. It gets very hard. It gets very hard to predict who the winner will
be. If you look back, as we did a few meetings ago, as the top 20 companies in the world at ten year intervals,
you realize the game isn’t quite as easy as it looks. Getting a decent result actually is reasonably, should be
reasonably easy if you just don’t get talked out of doing what has works in the past, and don’t get carried away

with fads, and don’t listen to people who have different interests in mind than the interests of our shareholders.
Okay, we’ll go to station number one.
Questioner: Hello, Mr Buffett, my name is Tomo Drge. I’m from Dusseldorf, Germany. This is my first time out
here in Omaha, so thank you for having us here. Today. So my question is directed to you, Mr Buffett and Mr
Abel. In 2019, you reportedly made a bid for the IT distribution business, tech data, and commented that you
understand its role as a middleman. I wonder if you could kindly elaborate on the criteria you look at when
evaluating IT distribution businesses like tech data and their competitive position. Thank you.
Warren Buffett: Well, we had some experience with distribution businesses, and we know their potential to a
degree and their limitations. And, Greg, you were involved in that more than I was. I mean, that was a case
where there had been a bid made and there was a go shop provision, and I think the management probably
would have preferred that we buy it. And when we went in with a better bid, the original party raised their bid,
and we never make the same offer twice, so. Greg, tell.
Greg Abel: Yeah, so, absolutely. In 2019, we saw tech data as a unique opportunity. When we saw the other
bid and the underlying value of that distribution business, we did. Warren and I were talking, others made the
conclusion we should talk to management. We talked to the team. They were very interested in Berkshire
being their long term owner, and we still saw good value in the opportunity. And we had a good understanding
of distribution businesses. We have TTI. It’s not exactly identical to Tech Data in that they’re very specific to
the, who their customers are and who they serve and supply and who they purchase from. Because on the
distribution side, it’s important to have that input coming in from folks who want their product. And, you know,
it’s needed on the other side that there’s demand for it. And they had an excellent model.
If you think of TTI, for example, that Warren talked about Paul many times and the person who founded this
business. But it’s a unique business in that our revenues on that business is approximately $10 billion. The
average part they sell is a little over nine cents. Ninety five billion parts go through their warehouse every,
every year. But it’s a model that if you have the right people on both sides of the equation and you understand
that, well, there’s, there’s a unique opportunity there. And, and that is something we saw in Tech Data. And as
Warren highlighted, we made our bid. Unfortunately, it was then topped by the original bidder and we moved
on. But we thought very highly of it.
Warren Buffett: We’ve probably seen at least five of them in aggregate, over the last three or four, five years.
It’s not a business that you can dream about because it’s a decent business. But, for example, many of the
items that the manufacturers just, they don’t want to tie up their capital. If you have, you know, a million plus
skus, they go stock keeping units, it’s like selling jelly beans or something like that. And you do. You’re serving
a purpose to a degree, but you don’t. You don’t really. It isn’t your product, in effect.
I mean, you’re just a good system for the producer of the equipment to get it to the end user without tying up a
lot of capital. Being in a business they don’t want to be in. We understand, but there’s no magic to it. With TTI,
you had a marvelous man running things, and when you get a marvelous person running something, to some
extent, that’s selects for better people underneath. Greg and I went to Paul Andrews funeral a few years ago,
and there were 300 people or so there, and there wasn’t one person that had to say something particularly
nice, but stretched a little bit about the deceased. I mean, everybody. Paul Andrews was the real McCoy, and
he was an amazing man. He behaved wonderfully with Berkshire. I mean, he wanted to do more for Berkshire
than Berkshire would do for him. I mean, it was very simple.
And you run into those people, as I say, you run into people that bend over backwards for us and then some
bend over forwards. But that’s just the way it is in this world, and we’ve had quite a few that have been over

backwards for us. The distribution business is not a wonderful business, but it is a business, and it’s a business
that, if it’s big enough, it’s one we would look at and we would buy additional, and TTI makes some smaller
acquisitions on its own all the time. I don’t even. I don’t even hear about them until I read the quarterly reports.
And so we. We want to build up. We want to build our businesses in every area that we operate, and we’ve got
unlimited capital to do it. So we’re willing to have small acquisitions take place if they fit in with something we
already have. But we’re not in the business of going out after small acquisitions, and if we did, we would. We
just don’t have the people for it, and it wouldn’t move the needle anyway. At Berkshire, we may or we would
have been happy doing the deal with the questioner asked about. But if we don’t do it, you know, it just doesn’t
make that much difference. We want to do it. If we do it, we’ll do it well. We’ll do it right. They’ll make the right
decision. If they don’t, you know, we will find something else to do with the money in the end. And we can
always buy a little more of TTI for you, the shareholders, by just buying in our stock, too.
Greg Abel: Exactly.
Warren Buffett: Yeah. Okay. Let’s see. We need Becky next, don’t we? Yeah, Becky.
Becky Quick: All right, Warren, earlier you talked about selling some of the apple shares in order to build up
your cash supply. And I think it’s had a lot of people wondering where you see opportunities or what might be
coming or market valuations. So I’ll ask this question from Foster Taylor. At the 1999 annual meeting, you
mentioned that if you owned all of America’s 500 businesses, you would be making $334 billion while paying
$10.5 trillion. You emphasize that this was not a good return on investment. Today, by my math, the S&P 500
has a market capitalization of around 44 trillion, with profits of around 1.45 trillion. This is a very similar return
on investment to the 1999 levels. Do you see similarities in the market today and the 1999 levels?
Warren Buffett: Well, one thing has changed dramatically from. Well, from 1990. I misunderstood on the 1999,
but there have been times in my life that I’ve been awash in so many opportunities that I could have invested
everything by nightfall. And then there’s other times when the year goes, well, not in the early days, but now we
just - we haven’t seen anything that makes sense that moves the needle. Now, we’ve made small acquisitions
during the year. Our companies have made acquisitions. And we. You know, Greg and I may talk about
something that involves a $300 million purchase or something like that. And, you know, if it fits well enough, we
do it. And if our managers see things that fit them, we want to look at them, because our managers do not
have necessarily the same equations in mind that we do. But there’s some managers which we would have
just say, you know, whatever you decide to do. And then there’s other managers that would not know how to
allocate capital, particularly, and that they don’t have to be able to be great capital allocators. If they happen to
be great at serving customers and understand their own industry and all of that, they can be great managers. A
good many of them are capital allocators and others are.
But this is not a time when the phone is going to be ringing often. But there are times from that, and Greg will
know how to handle them as well or better than I have. Over time, Charlie and I, we missed a lot of things, and
what we really regretted was missing something that turned out to be very big. We never worried about missing
something that we didn’t understand. Why should we be able to predict the future of every business any more
than we can predict what wheat yields are likely to be in Illinois next year? Well, not wheat in Illinois, wheat in
Kansas, but corn in Illinois. So I don’t really think of whether it’s similar to 1999 because I’m not that good on
chronology anyway. Unless something really dramatic happened at the time. I mean, I remember things from
2008 and ‘9 much better than I remember whether something happened in 2015 or. Or 1987 or well, 1987 I
remember because of October 19. But I just don’t think that way. I just look at what I can do every day. Greg.
Greg Abel: I’m gonna have to use it. Nothing. Sorry. Nothing to add.

Warren Buffett: Okay, well, we’ll go to station two. I mean, it’s nice to know what lines you can get an applause
for. Station two.
Questioner: Hello. My name is Stefan Wuernbacher. I am a shareholder from Hamburg, Germany.
I’ve been coming to Omaha since 2007, and I’m deeply grateful for all the things I could learn here, both about
investing and about life, in particular, creating circumstances that will enable me to lead a productive life during
my entire healthy lifespan. So thank you for that. My question to Warren, your favorite holding period is forever.
Holding American Express or Coca Cola for decades. Berkshire recently went in and out of Markel, and you, I
believe, sold and later bought Oxy, which I think happens to everyone all the time. But can you maybe to us,
give examples of your thoughts process when you exit positions? Thank you.
Warren Buffett: Well, there are various reasons for exiting positions. One is if you need the money, but that
doesn’t happen very often with us. But it used to happen on every decision I made when I started when I was
20 years old, which I consider the post graham period, although I actually started in 1942, if you just talk about
buying stocks. But in any event, the decision process is really quite interesting in certain ways because we
made - charlie and I made decisions extremely fast. But in effect, after years of thinking about the parameters
that would enable us to make the quick decision when it presented itself.
People have speculated on how I’ve decided to really put a lot of money into Apple, and for a reason I can’t one thing that Charlie and I both learned a lot about was consumer behavior. That didn’t mean we thought we
could run a furniture store or anything else. But we did learn a lot when we bought a furniture chain in
Baltimore. And we quickly realized that it was a mistake. But having made that mistake, made us smarter
about actually thinking through what the capital allocation process would be and how people were likely to
behave in the future with department stores and all kinds of things that we wouldn’t have really focused on.
So we learned something about consumer behavior from that. We didn’t learn how to run a department store.
Now, the next one was See’s candy. And See’s candy was also a study of consumer behavior. We didn’t know
how to make candy. You know, we didn’t. There were all kinds of things we didn’t know. But we’ve learned
more about consumer behavior as we go along. And that sort of background, in a very general way, led up to
the study of consumer behavior in terms of Apple’s products. And in that case, while I watched what was
happening at the furniture mart, in terms of people leaving the store, even though we were selling Apple at a
price where we weren’t even making any money, but it was just so popular that if we didn’t have it, people left
the store and went to best buy or someplace. And if you know the Blumkins, they can’t stand anybody leaving
the store, so they behave accordingly.
But then you learned that had the interest in the brand, and then you had a million different inputs. But I think
the psychologists call this apperceptive mass. But there is something that comes along that takes a whole
bunch of observations that you’ve made and knowledge you have and then crystallizes your thinking into
action. Big action in the case of Apple. And there actually is something, which I don’t mean to be mysterious,
but I really can’t talk about, but it was perfectly legal, I’m sure, you know, that. It just happened to be something
that entered the picture that took all the other observations. And I guess my mind reached what they call
apperceptive mass, which I really don’t know anything about, but I know the phenomenon when I experience it.
And that is, we saw something that I felt was, well, enormously enterprise.
Maybe I’ve used this example before, but if you talk to most people, if they have an iPhone and they have a
second car, the second car cost them 30 or $35,000, and they were told that they never could have the iPhone
again, or they could never have the second car again. They would give up the second car. But the second car
cost them 20 times. Now, people don’t think about their purchases that way, but I think about their behavior.
And so we just decide without knowing. I don’t know. There may be some little guy inside the iPhone or

something. I have no idea how it works. But I also know what it means. I know what it means to people, and I
know how they use it. And I think I know enough about consumer behavior to know that it’s one of the great
products, maybe the greatest product of all time. And the value it offers is incredible. And I think it has, and Tim
Cook, I think it has somebody that, in his own way, is the equivalent of a partner, partner with Steve Jobs that
could do one thing extraordinarily well and more than one application, but one thing. And Tim was the perfect
partner to serve sequentially with him. So it’s, you sort of know it when you see it.
I actually saw it with GEICO when I went there in 1950. I didn’t know exactly what I was seeing, but Lorimer
Davidson on a Saturday, in 4 hours, taught me enough about what I understood what auto insurance was, and
I knew what a car was, and I knew what went through people’s minds. I knew they didn’t like to buy it, but I
knew they couldn’t drive without it. So that was pretty interesting. And then, but he filled in all the blanks in my
mind as I sat there on that Saturday afternoon. And, you know, every now and then it happens. You know, why
do you have this, the person you met? You know, there are all these different potential spouses in the room,
and then something happens that you decide that this is the one for you. You know, I think Rogers and
Hammerstein, that some enchanted evening, wrote about that.
Well, our idea of an enchanted evening is to come up with a business, Charlie and me, and there is an aspect
of knowing a whole lot and having a whole lot of experiences and then seeing something that turns on the light
bulb. And that will continue to happen. And I hope it happens a few times to you, but you can’t make it happen
tomorrow, but you can prepare yourself for it happening tomorrow, and it will happen sometimes.
Greg Abel: Hey, Warren, he mentioned Oxy, which I think is a great example where you made the original
decision basically on a weekend with some thought. But as the more you learned about Oxy and the asset
position, they had their ability to operate in an exceptional manner, and then a strong CEO around capital
allocation. I think your confidence, which was reflected in continuing to acquire more shares, is sort of that type
of process.
Warren Buffett: Yeah, it’s exactly to the point. I mean, I just learned more as I went along. I learned enough.
You know, I’d never, I’d heard of Occidental Petroleum. Occidental petroleum happens to have been a
descendant, not a descendant, but it’s a continuation of city service, which was the first stock I bought. And, of
course, I knew a lot about the oil and gas business, but I didn’t know anything about geology, so I knew the
economics of it. I had a lot of various things stored in my mind about the business, but I never heard of Vicki
until, I guess, it was a Friday or Saturday, and we met on Sunday morning. We made a deal, but that was one
sort of deal. And then as time passed, all the kinds of different events happened. You know, Icahn came in.
I mean, there are a million things you couldn’t predict at the start, and I formed certain opinions as I went
along, but then I learned more as I went along. And then at a point when I heard an investor call that it put
things together for me in a way it didn’t mean I knew I had a sure thing or anything like that. I don’t know what
the price of oil was going to be next year, but I knew that it was something to act on. So we did, and we’re very
happy we did, and we still don’t know what the price of oil is going to be next year. Nobody does, but I think the
odds are very good that it was, but not a cinch that it was a good decision, and we’ve got options to buy more
stock, and when we get through with it, it could be a worthwhile investment for Berkshire. We’re in it, and we’re
in it for keeps. There are other things that we own that we aren’t in for keeps.
Oh, incidentally, I should just throw this out, since there’s been speculation on it. We’ve sold. A, I was 100%
responsible for the paramount decision. I read speculation that either Ted or Todd had some involvement in
that. No, it was 100% my decision, and we sold it all, and we lost quite a bit of money, and that happens in this
business, too. But actually owning Paramount made me think even further. I like to think deeper, but I certainly
thought harder even about the whole question of what people do with their leisure time and what the governing
principles are of running an entertainment business of any sort, whether it’s sports or movies or whatever it

might be. And I think I’m smarter now than I was a couple years ago. But I also think I’m poorer because I
acquired the knowledge in the manner I did. But I just want to be very clear that, a, we lost money on
Paramount, and, b, and I did it all by myself, folks, I don’t know whether I’ve anticipated one of Becky’s
questions now, but we will find out. Let’s see now. Yeah, you’re next, Becky.
Becky Quick: Yes, you did anticipate one of the questions. Let’s go to another one. This question comes from
Vincent James in Munich, Germany. In the chairman’s letter, Warren points out that the profit margins for BNSF
have slipped relative to all five other railroads. However, Warren comments in the letter, BNSF carries more
freight and spends more on capital expenditures than any of the other five major railroads, and has a vast
service territory second to none. Given the comments from Warren about the clear strengths of BNSF, what
explains the decline in revenue and profit, and in particular, the profit margins relative to the other five
railroads? What are the issues relative to the other railroads, and what is being done to address them? Please
be specific. Okay.
Warren Buffett: And I will. Well, how specific we get depends on what Greg wants to say. But Greg is that. It’s
Greg’s responsibility. It’s my responsibility for the purchase and for the operation up till Greg took over.
But I think I’ll let Greg answer that.
Greg Abel: Sure. Yeah, the Warren touched on it. And the comments as reflected there are very accurate. If
you look at this quarter’s results or our last year’s results, they were both. - they’re disappointing as
shareholders and disappointing relative to the other class one railroads. And as highlighted in the question,
there’s five other class one railroads. So it’s pretty easy to understand how you’re performing versus the
others. And there’s a lot of other variables, but there’s some very simple things to look at.
When we look at where we’ve been on with, associated with Burlington, I would. I would just back up a little bit,
because if you go back to 2021, the Burlington team and management team and the group, we’re making
excellent progress on a lot of fronts when it comes to our operating in both being efficient and effective in how
we’re operating the railroad. And I remember very specific comments from myself in 2022, where I commented
that that was the year there was all the supply chain issues, a lot going on in the west coast ports.
Our trains were backed up in a variety of places, and we called that a reset year. And I think we did need a
reset year on the operational side. But as we moved into 23, the business cost level, cost structure, we didn’t
reset it to the underlying demand we were seeing. We anticipated more demand, and we did not reset our cost
structure. And the team’s working very hard as we speak, to both reset the cost structure and allocate the cost
resources where they need to be. And when you go through something like that, what we’ve recognized as an
organization, yes, the demand of the rail will drive a certain amount of the cost, but the reality is that the rail
industry, if you go back many, many years, it’s flat. There’s not a lot of growth in the industry. There’s
opportunities become more efficient, effective, and our margins can go up. But the reality is the demand is
going to be flat. But it does move within different sectors of the rail. It can be in the consumer products, it can
be an industrial, it can be in Ag. But overall, it’s generally going to be relatively flat. So we need to get our cost
structure right, and we need to get it right, both for the coming year, but for the long term. And that means it’s
going to be a continuous exercise. We can’t stop. We can’t say we, we’ve gotten far enough. Because our
competitors, and we compete with the other rails, but we also do compete with the truck industry. We have to
have a cost structure, allows us to compete both within our rail industry and within the transportation sector as
a whole.
So the team at Burlington is working very hard to address the cost structure, just like we have in the past. I
think one thing we do recognize, when the other railroads have implemented precision scheduled railroading,
there’s other metrics that we have to continue to pay attention to and challenge ourselves. If we’re not at their
level, what are the things that are driving it? So we’re gonna. When they ask for specifics, I’ll give you a few.

We have to look at our rail yards and understand how we’re managing that. We have to look at our locomotive
fleet, both the size and how we’re utilizing that, and challenge ourselves. And we have to then go back to how
we’re using our employee resources and allocating them across the business. So there’s a lot to be done
there. Our team’s 100% committed to driving to the right cost structure that’s going consistent with the
underlying demand in the business, and then we can’t stop there is the answer. So, a lot to be done, but we
have a team that’s absolutely engaged and committed to it, and we’re going to make good progress in this
current year.
Warren Buffett: At Berkshire, we want everybody to have the idea that there’s a lot to be done with every
business, you know? So, I mean, it is. We built a remarkable, remarkable company and Omaha building
company, really remarkable. And there’s this question, after everything they did, that was something that was
done particularly well, you know, digging a tunnel under the East river or something, said it couldn’t be done.
He would say he would be. He was pleased, but not satisfied. And that is exactly the way we want the attitude
to be at Berkshire forever. Omaha is a railroad town. If President Lincoln, in 1862, I think it was, had decided to
pick St. Joe or Plattsmith or anyplace else to build the transcontinental railroad, Omaha would probably build a
little town of 20,000 or something on the banks of the Missouri. But making, with Lincoln’s desire to make this
the eastern connection and make a transcontinental railroad, Omaha just took off. So it’s been it’s been
railroading at its base. The. You know. And anybody that was interested in financial matters had to think about
railroads. Plus they had a certain glamor to them anyway.
But the interesting thing is that UP, which is our main competitor themselves, fell way behind 20 or 25 years
ago. Before Jim Young came in, in 2000, whenever it was ‘08 or so, I started buying three railroad stocks in
Union Pacific, BNSF and Norfolk Western, I believe. I don’t know why I wasn’t buying C and O, but in any
event, Jim Young had done a marvelous job with Union Pacific. So we owned all three stocks. But what we did
in 2009 is we were able. Well, we already owned 22% of it, but overall, it was $35 million a billion dollars, which
was a significant part of our capital. We were able to put it to work in a business we liked. And there’s certain
tax advantages that come in terms of making money in something that’s more than 80% owned. We call it
100% owned, in this case, versus making it through stocks. So it has a net benefit to us from making the same
amount of money owning one of the other railroads, by owning all of the railroads, and we got 35 billion out
during a recessionary period.
I think that was the worst quarter, the third quarter of 2009, maybe the rails had had for a long time. So it’s
worked out. Actually, it’s worked out very well, but it’s because we were putting out capital in 2008 and nine,
and if we put money in anything, we’d have made a lot of money. But it’s more satisfying, and it’s actually
better in certain ways, tax wise, to make it from something that’s 100% owned and a bunch of 5% or 10%
owned businesses. As I mentioned in the annual report, railroads are absolutely essential to the country.
That doesn’t mean they’re on the cutting edge of everything. They’re just essential to the country. And that’s
why the government, I think they took them over one time, and they negotiate what our labor settlements will
be and everything. And if you shut down the railroads of the country, it would be incredible, the effects, but.
And they would be impossible to construct now.
I mean, look at what’s happening in California when they’re trying to build a line. I mean, you know,
everybody’s worried about the environmental effect of every mile, and, you know, and what will happen to the
various species of birds. Can you imagine the rail system of the United States being built? It would take
decades, unless the war was on and the government took over things and just ordered them. You can’t create
it. So we love owning a business like that. It’s going to be around 100 years from now, won’t be the best growth
business in the world at all during that period, but it will be essential. And what it earns in its relation to its
replacement value is a pittance. But we’ll do fine in terms of what we paid for it. And we’ll distribute substantial
amounts in relation to what we paid to Berkshire in a very tax efficient way. So it’s when.

The question is, what are the issues relative? The other railroads. It wouldn’t have been the end of the world at
all if we bought the Union Pacific and Jim Young had stayed alive to run it for us. That would have been great,
too. But we had the opportunity to buy BNSF, and it’s been good for them, and it’s been good for us. And we
think it’s been a very important asset to the country. And I just hope we can find something in other industries
that makes as much sense as that, where we can put a whole bunch of money to work at an advantageous
time. So, let’s go on to station three. Is that correct or not? Yeah. Okay.
Questioner: Kia ora, good afternoon. Mr. Buffett, Mr. Abel. My name is Sirapob Wu. A resident of New Zealand
but originally from Thailand. This is my first time in America and first time attending the meeting. The journey
was rough, but it was all worth it because I can now personally thank you, Mr. Buffett—and the late Charlie
Munger, were he still with us—for organising such a wonderful event and, most importantly, for being such
exceptional role models and sharing your wisdom with us all these years. So, thank you.
Here’s my question for you, Mr. Buffett. Towards the end of 2018, you mentioned that you guarantee you could
make a 50% annual return if you had to start again with under $1 million. The question is: if tomorrow you
woke up in the body of a 20-year-old American, your name was now Warren a la carte, and you had some
money to invest on a full-time basis, what method or methods would you use to achieve that return? Would it
involve flipping through 20,000 pages of Moody’s Manual and similar publications to find cigar butts? Or would
it be hunting for great companies at a fair price, as Mr. Munger would? Or would it be a combination of both,
with opportunity cost serving as the final arbiter of which method to use, given that your investing universe had
now broadened significantly? Thank you. Kob khun krab.
Warren Buffett: Good question. I’m glad you came. The answer would be, in my particular case, it would be
going through the 20,000 pages. And since we were talking about railroads, you know, I went through the
Moody’s transportation manual a couple of times. That was 1500 or 2000 pages or probably 1500 pages.
And I found all kinds of interesting things when I was 50 or when I was 20 or 21. And I don’t imagine there’s
anybody here that knows about the Green Bay and Western Railroad Company, but there were hundreds and
hundreds of railroad companies, and I like to read about every one of them. The Green Bay and western, in
those days, everybody had a nickname for railroads. I mean, that was just what northern Pacific was, the
Nipper. And, you know, Phoebe Snow was one of them in the east that used to go up to Cornell and the green
band, Western was known as grab baggage and walk and GB&W. And they had a bond that was actually the
common stock, and they had a common stock that was actually a bond. And, you know, that that could lead to
unusual things, but they wouldn’t lead to unusual things that would work for you with many millions of dollars,
but if you collected a whole bunch of those, which I set out to do. And actually, that’s what impressed Charlie
when I first met him, because I knew all the details of all these little companies on the west coast that he
thought I would never have heard of, but I knew about the Los Angeles Athletic Club, or whatever it might be,
and he thought he was the only one that knew about that. And that became an instant point of connection.
So to answer your question, I don’t know what the equivalent of Moody’s manuals or anything would be now,
but I would try and know everything about everything small, and I would find something. And with a million
dollars you could earn 50% a year. But you have to be in love with the subject. You can’t just be in love with the
money. You really got to just find it like a true, you know, essentially, like, you know, people find other things in
other fields because they just love looking for it. A biologist looks for something because they want to find
something, and it’s built into. I don’t know how the human brain works that much, and I don’t think anybody
understands too well how the human brain works. But there’s different people that just find it exciting to expand
their knowledge in a given area. I know great bridge players, I know great chess players. Actually, Kasparov
came to. Oh, mom met Mrs. B. I’ve had the luck of meeting a lot of people that are unbelievably smart in their
own arena and do some unbelievably dumb things in other areas.

So all I know is the human brain is complicated, but it does its best when you find out what your brain is really
suited for, and then you just pound the hell out of it from that point. And that’s what I would be doing if I had a
small amount of money and I wanted to make 50% a year, but I also wanted to just play the game. And you
can’t do it if you really, if you don’t find the game of interest, whether it’s bridge, or whether, you know,
whatever it may be, chess, or in this case, finding securities that are undervalued. But it sounds to me like
you’re on the right track. I mean, anybody that’ll come all the way to this annual meeting has got something in
their mind other than bridge or chess . So I’m glad you came and come again next year. And now we move.
Now we move to Becky.
Becky Quick: This question comes from Denny Poland, a shareholder from Pittsburgh. When describing the
principal agent problem, Mr Munger said that capitalism often works best when the people managing the
property also own the property. In recent years, agents of pension funds and asset management firms who do
not have significant personal ownership stakes in Berkshire have forwarded proposals that were not in the
economic interest of shareholders. What can be done to limit the negative influence of these agents in the
decades after you’re no longer able to cast significant votes against them?
Warren Buffett: Well, that’s a very perceptive question, and it’s been answered in a temporary manner, but who
knows how the situation will develop in the future? All I know is that you have a wonderful hand at Berkshire
Hathaway, but you have to be able to think your way. I mean, obviously, you have to think your way through
political realities. You have to think your way for what will cause a. You want to be on. You want to be regarded
as an asset to the country because you’ll find more solutions. If you are an asset, you owe to the country
anyway. But beyond that, you’ll find more solutions than if you’re regarded as evil or something, and worse yet,
if you deserve it. So it’s something that’s constantly in our mind, and it needs to be in the mind of the directors,
and they need to think for themselves on this rather than bow to conventional wisdom, which, you know, in a
sense, you don’t want to become a cynic about life, but almost everybody that approaches you, if you have
tons of resources that’s got some interest in figuring out how to use your resources to their advantage, and
that’s true whether they’re in politics or whether they’re in investment banking or whether they’re selling you,
well, whatever it may be that they’re selling, I don’t want to do any injury to anybody, but life insurance agents
see the advantage of buying life insurance, and investment managers who get paid based on assets managed
to get interested in selling you their services.
Imagine if everybody in this room were following the investment advice of somebody that said, you know, for
1% a year, I’ll tell you how to invest your money. And in 1950, when we started in 1965, they would have said,
well, buy Berkshire Hathaway, and if they were around now and they saw the 1% deal, they’d be collecting $8
billion a year from people who aren’t getting any dividends from us. So they would have a different interest in
the kind of contract they worked out with you than you would have. And best thing to do was just pay them a
commission one time and own the stock. But you have to be alert to how what human nature does to both
other people and to you.
And then, you know, if you think it through well and actually listen to what Charlie has told you, you’ll have a big
head start on most people. Charlie - there’s one thing that I should mention that really is terribly interesting
about Charlie. Charlie knew the importance of psychology and human behavior and incentives and all of that.
He figured that out very early. And, of course, he gave some talks, even on 25 or so ways, whatever it
happened to be. I don’t remember the exact number, but the different ways that one person could take
advantage of another by understanding how humans behave. And then after doing a magnificent job of
explaining it. He believed in understanding what others would do, but he thought it was beneath him to actually
use those methods to manipulate people. Really interesting human being that thinks through the psychology of
human behavior and figures out, you know, how you become a great insurance salesman or manager on Wall
Street, or accumulate assets under management or whatever it may be. And you get very rich by

understanding the weaknesses of others to some extent, and then decide that it’s very important for you to
recognize these when they occur. It’s very important for you to know them better than the person that actually
is using them, but not that you don’t have to stoop to using them yourself. And Charlie told me that in his
lifetime after he figured this out, there were a couple of times when he used them. He wasn’t proud of it, but he
also never lied to me. So he explained to me that there were a couple times when he used some of these
techniques, but he didn’t plan on using them anymore. Also wanted me to know that if I ever did something like
that, I wasn’t really behaving terribly, that he allowed for the fact that humans may misbehave.
So I’m sure that I behaved somewhat better before my marriage than I did afterwards in my enthusiasm for
different activities, like dancing or something. And he said, we all do it, but don’t do it again. So that’s part of
acquiring human wisdom. And speaking of human wisdom, we’ve just got that one book out there by Charlie, I
mean, poor Charlie’s Almanac, and that’s worth reading three or four times. I think I read Ben Graham’s book
about five or six times. And each time I read it, I realized that I just needed to think a little more deeply about
certain things. They weren’t complicated or anything. But, you know, it’s better to. If you’ve got some great
instruction, like you get with Charlie, it’s better to read it several times than to just figure you’ll just read every
book once it’s in the library. Okay, let’s go to section four.
Questioner: Jeff Rabelir from Tulsa, Oklahoma. And I’m thinking of Doctor Graham, Mr Munger, your father.
And my question is, for all of us, but it’s probably especially for the younger people in the room, the importance
of picking the right heroes in life. Choosing friends wisely, and maybe tell us, a story, if you could, about each
of those folks. Thank you, sir.
Warren Buffett: Well, there’s no question you’re 100% right in terms of having the right heroes. And, you know,
you’re lucky if you get them. I mean, Charlie had them, I had them. And the interesting thing, my sister is here
today, my younger sister, with the two survivors. And we both experienced having the same hero, even though
as we grew older, we saw that we didn’t agree with plenty of his ideas, but we did agree with his values and
motivation. And that’s, that’s a better lesson than having somebody that reading to you from a catechism, that
has got a lot of rules in it, which are pretty good rules, but, but there’s a special, special place for somebody
that is going to continue loving you even if you break some of the rules. And that’s what Charlie had in his life,
was what Bertie and I had in our life. So I would just repeat what you said. I don’t need to give you a bunch of,
well, when I ran away from home, I’ll give you a specific example with me.
When I ran away from home and went and we hitchhiked up to Hershey, Pennsylvania, and got picked up by
the state police and everything. And I talked these other two guys into it and we lied like crazy to the state
police, you know, saying we had our parents permission. Some kid at the place where we stayed had tipped
them off that we’d run away from home. And we started, like I said, state police picked us up. We decided two
things. You know, we decided to tell them a bunch of lies about the fact we had our parents permission. And
we decided we better get out of Hershey because these cops were going to find out sooner or later. And so
anyway, we end up back in Washington after a couple days. And when I walked in the door, well, one of the
boy’s mother and this other kid was the congressman, Roger Bell. And his mother was in the hospital over this
whole thing. He’d taken out his cash and his savings bonds. And so she was sick. And Judge Bell, her
husband, was all concerned and everything. And I walked in the door in Washington and my mother said, how
come he came back so soon? And my father said, he said, I know you can do better. And I just paid more
attention to my father than my mother. So you want to have the right heroes and you don’t have to have them.
It’s not the heroes based on what they’ve accomplished. It’s the people that you want to be yourself. And if you
copy the right people, you’re off to a great start. And I don’t mean great start about making money. I mean a
great start about living your life. So you can check with my sister Bertie who’s here, and see if I’ve told the story
correctly. She ran away from home, too, incidentally, but she didn’t get as far as I got. She was running away to
go over to my grandfather’s house, which was about 2 miles away. But I don’t want to denigrate her runaway

abilities because she was much more accomplished than I am in all kinds of other things. But when it comes to
running away, I definitely outclassed her. Okay, let’s go to Becky.
Becky Quick: This question comes from Vedant Sharma in India. Warren, you and Charlie have often said that
you were able to identify the people you want to go into business with and have had an exceptional record in
that. However, in the case of Pilot, we noticed that the final stake purchase ended up in a dispute and had a
sense of smart accounting, to put it one way, to squeeze a little more out from the deal than was deserved by
the seller. Knowing well that this has been settled out of court, and needs due confidentiality, I would like your
views on some of the lessons learned that may be beneficial for future deals to watch for and for coming
leadership to look out for as well.
Warren Buffett: Well, I’ll make two comments on that. A couple of the directors had their doubts about going in,
and in any event, Pilot is working out well for us. And my friend Sam Butler one time said to me that, and he
was talking in general about certain kinds of situations, but he said, well, Warren, he said, all is well that ends,
and that’s where we are. So we’ll go to station five. Well, while we’re getting to station five, I’ll tell you a little bit
more about the fellow that is now running Pilot. I knew you may have met here that Greg had known for a long,
long time. And he grew up in Omaha and came from a poor family and was raised by his mother. And went to
the same high school, public high school that my wife went to, North High. Went to University of Omaha, set an
all time record in rushing yardage playing there. He was a bouncer, yes. Drafted by the New York Giants, as I
remember. But then injured, actually, in spring training, I remember, in some way. And so he ended up being an
intern. Not an intern, but a trainee, you might say, for mid American before I was there. And now here he is, still
relatively young, and he’s running a huge company, and we’ve got incredible confidence in what he will do. And
we like very, very, very much the business that was created by Big Jim Haslam. And it really is almost an only
in America type story, but it does show you with somebody with some real stuff and with a mother that believes
in them and with bad breaks along the way. I mean, imagine how you’d feel if you were drafted by the New
York Giants and then you suffered some injury in spring training or something. I mean, you spend your life, it
just, it hurts, but it’s not an experience I would have ever had. I was the last guy chosen. But to see that he’s
running a company depends on the price of deal, but it’s a huge company. What does he have, 25,000 or
something? And he’s got many, many, many years to go. So I couldn’t be more pleased about not only the
acquisition of Pilot, but just what it tells you about America. You can, what do you have to look up to? Read
about them in Google or an interview with Adam?
Greg Abel: Yeah, I try and think if it’s. A podcast.
Warren Buffett: Yeah, he’s got a podcast. Podcast that will just blow you away. And if you don’t think this is a
great country, it has a lot of great people. All you got to do is read that podcast. So.
Greg Abel: But we do have a great set of assets. Oh, yeah. You know, if you look at Pilot, we have 800, more
than 800 stations, travel centers, and just so everybody knows, I mean, the beauty of that, and there’s a
question regarding this morning around fuel choices at Pilot. And the exciting thing is, in the end, pilot’s going
to serve whatever fuel our customers need. It can be electric, it can be renewable diesel, it can be diesel or
any of the various sustainable fuels. But the point is, it has exceptional locations that are on the interstate
highways. Hundreds of them. And we bought an incredible franchise and now we have a great leadership team
in both Adam and his team that’s around him. So we’re pleased where that opportunity will go.
Warren Buffett: Yeah, we’ve got probably the average one might be ten or twelve acres or something like that
zoned commercial on interstates throughout the whole United States. Who knows? But what was created there
is amazing, too. You had a fellow that played at University of Tennessee, and undefeated and came away from
this football team and you think, well, another football player, you know, maybe he goes out and, and there

may be some intermediate parts in the story a little bit, but he buys a gas station and he turns it into something
that is huge. So we’re really delighted with it. And it’s another kind of only in America story. You know, how
many of us can become an all american, number one ranked team, let alone start a business that goes on
these sort of heights. So we feel very good about it. Becky?
Greg Abel: No, I think they’re ready for five now. Oh, I see. He’s up there now, ready to go.
Warren Buffett: Okay, go do it.
Questioner: Hello, Mr. Buffett. My name is Zhang Yabo. I came from micro City, Hainan, China. So I want to
express my sincere gratitude for you, for the extraordinary value you generated for shareholders and the
positive influences you’ve had on younger generation of investors like us. And my question relates to the
concept of maximizing the duration of compounding. As individuals age, the quality of compounding inevitably
diminishes. What are your secrets in maintaining your sharp man? Extraordinary judgment and great physical
condition. We wish you well. Thank you.
Warren Buffett: Well, you don’t know me well, but that’s. I like. Just keep talking. You know, you have to be just
plain lucky. I mean, there’s no question about it that there’s 100 or a thousand. You know, multiply a number of
times that some drunk could have pulled out of the car and broadsided me, or, you know, just the bad luck you
can have in life. And I can say my great skill has been avoiding bad luck, but that isn’t a skill. That’s luck or bad
activities. And then to get to be. I would not have been if you’d taken my high school class. And you say a
couple of you are going to live to be 90. Men are going to live to be 93, maybe I’ve got. You know, I wouldn’t. I
would not have been a heavy favorite, I can tell you that. And I wouldn’t have bet on myself. But you just. Now,
you should make the most of your luck when you get it. And sometimes I’ve done that and sometimes I
haven’t.
I mean, it is absolutely true that if I had to do over again, there’d be a lot of different choices I would make,
whether they would have ended up working out as well as things that worked out. It’s hard to imagine how they
could have worked out any better. So. But it is interesting how many mistakes you can make if you just keep
going. And Charlie, you know, when he used to talk about that, that you just soldier through, you just keep
going, and. But you still need luck, you know, you don’t want to. Anybody that says I did it all myself is just
kidding. I mean, it’s just. They’re delusional and, you know, actually living in a country with a life expectancy is
pretty darn good, you know, so that alone is a huge plus.
I was born, if I’d been born, my sister’s here, and she was born female, and she’s just. Just as smart as I was
and everything. But even my own family, who really did well, particularly my dad, love us all equally in a terrific
manner. But he still told me that this is, well, was born ten years after the 19th amendment was past, but he
basically told my sisters that marry young, well, you still have your looks. And he told me that the world, that
power in you is new in nature and you really could do anything. Well, I found there were a lot of things I
couldn’t do, but the message given to females and males was incredibly different by the most well meaning
and loving of parents.
You know, like I say, in 1930, I mean, it’s been that way for millions of years. It’s changed quite dramatically, but
obviously not completely, but during my lifetime, but it’s been during the latter half of my lifetime. If you take my
sisters, if they’d been born even five or ten years later, they still would have been getting instructions when
they went away to college, to be sure, and get married while we get arranged so that you’re going to be
married while you’re in school, because after you get out, all the good ones are taken. Bertie was telling me
that was a message that that basically had been imparted to a lot of the women she had met, obviously. So it
really, it’s extraordinary how much progress we’ve made, but it’s unbelievable how long it took to get it made. I

mean, it really does make you wonder about, you know, we’ve got all these heroes from american history and
all the wonderful things they did, but how could they say all men are created equal and then write a constitution
that women, you know, allowed women not to be able to own property and depending on the state. I mean, just
terrible conditions. But anyway, that’s how you learn about what the humans can do.
And I feel, and you’ve got to feel better about the future for your kids than you would have felt 100 years ago,
no matter what the situation is. Anyway, we’ll move to Becky.
Becky Quick: This question comes from Linda Frazier in Westport, Connecticut. Dear Mr Buffett, in the past,
you’ve specified that 90% of your wife’s inheritance be invested in a low cost S&P 500 index fund and 10% in
short term government bonds. But the market cap of the magnificent seven tech stocks now represents more
than one quarter of the market cap weighted S&P 500 index, which seems like a big bet on the tech sector.
I was wondering if you would now recommend investing some portion of the funds in a low cost, equal weight
S&P 500 index fund, rather than having all of the equity exposure in a tech heavy market cap weighted fund.
Warren Buffett: Well, that’s an interesting question. And I will tell you that I revise my will about every three
years or so, and I get little thoughts from time to time, and then you don’t change it. Every time you do it, you
get a tiny thing. But the one section I haven’t changed is that, that with my wife, that she got left a huge amount
of money by practically anybody’s measurement, except a pittance, compared to what I’ve accumulated in
total. And it won’t make one bit of difference to her in life whether she beats the S&P or anything else. All I
want to leave is plenty of money to take care of way beyond anything she’ll ever spend, and at the same time,
give her as much peace of mind as possible and really make sure that the trustee who administers it doesn’t
really have to worry about whether, it just doesn’t make any difference whether she beats the S&P or not. And
the main thing is that she feels that. She feels that she’s in a financial position, which, of course, she will be,
that she doesn’t even need to think about it. And the trustee doesn’t have to worry about getting sued or
anything else.
So it’s simply not an economic condition. Now, obviously, with 99% plus of what I have going to philanthropy,
and I’ve got my three children. The one good thing is that at the age of 70, 69 and 65, they have matured
remarkably, probably more than their father. But at the same time, they’ve got less time to work with the money
than they would have. You know, they were 50 or something like that. So you do, you do the best in
accomplishing your objectives in your will, and, and in the end, you know, you can’t, you don’t know what’s
going to happen after you die, but you make sure that, that to the extent that you leave, you have a lot of
money to leave. You take. Obviously, you want to say thanks to a lot of people and quite a few people in terms
of specific requests, you want to take care of your family. But in my case, that requires practically no money
and a fair amount for taxes. But I have, and my children are in charge of what happens to the funds that are
left. But like I say, the problem is when you live as long as I have. And the kids get older, who knows what
happens with mortality tables? And they’re the ones that I really want to see handle the distributions.
And they will, and they’ll be very good about it. But if we’re all alive three years from now, they’ll be three years
older. So everything, you can’t solve everything in life. You do the best you can with it. People do interesting
things.
I’ve been around probably as many rich people as almost anybody, and a fair number of, I know what they’re
doing or have done with their funds. And the idea that you can have a huge amount of money and leave
everybody very rich and have people liking each other less when it all happens. Humans are really, they are
interesting to watch. Some of them handle it beautifully and others are terrible. The one thing lawyers will
always tell you is don’t use codicils. In other words, you know, when you change your mind on a will, just write
a new one, but tear up the old one. Don’t do it by just adding codicils.

But I believe I’m correct. Certainly read it. That Paul Getty, who was the richest man in the world, presumably
at one point in the 1950s or sixties, and it was a very interesting guy to read about, and he had five wives, and
he’s the one whose grandson was kidnapped, and they sent Paul Getty an ear of the child and everything. I
mean, it’s not a happy life when you get through it. But the one, one thing he did that was kind of interesting, he
actually liked to use codicils because I think he had like 25 of them. And it was kind of his way of writing, well,
I’m taking you out of the will because, you know, and so he sort of delighted in explaining through his will how
he felt about all these people.
I mean, you really get some strange things revealed in a will. I just read about a will of a fellow that made a
whole lot of money and was leaving it to his, I don’t know whether it was children, grandchildren, whatever it
may have been, but in any event, his opening line and his will is, and this was done some years ago, but I
know something about the family. His opening line, in effect, said, I’m writing this will while I am writing in the
economy section of Eastern Airlines, number such and such. I mean, he believed in getting right to the point of
what the people who were recipients, how they should live, and he was going to be judging them. It’s just so
damned interesting to watch people’s wills. But one guy left a lot of money to his wife on the condition that she
remarry, so that at least one man would mourn his passing. Well, I’m not giving legal advice here, as I always
say, but I feel very, very, very good about how things have turned out.
And I wish I could figure out ways better to use the really vast resources I’ve got into some of the really
important questions of the world, but I haven’t been able to do that. I had a few goals when I was 30 or 40, and
may have written them in the wills then, in terms of what the world needed done and how the money could be
used. And unfortunately, I decided that they weren’t feasible to accomplish. And of course I was setting out to
accomplish things that were important. Nobody’s solved yet, so you got to expect that why should I be able to
solve them? But nevertheless, it’s an interesting - and the one thing about it is everybody here, I don’t know
about the ones who’ve come from other countries, but you should have a will, because if you don’t have a will,
you still have a will, and it’ll be whatever the state says. And it’s amazing. Four american presidents died
intestate without wills. Four, you know, we’ve only had 45.
And imagine becoming president of the United States and not having a will. But you can look up somebody
recently, I think, Lincoln, I’m certain Lincoln was one of the four. And here’s a man, I mean, I don’t know what
you can always say. Well, he didn’t get around to it, but that’s hard to imagine why Abraham Lincoln would
have died intestate. I’m sure we’ve got some Lincoln scholars out there that will write me after this and explain
why, and I’ll be interested to receive their letters. But human beings are human beings, and we all have
weaknesses and peculiarities and everything else. And don’t be too hard on yourself, because you have some
of those. But don’t be totally forgiving either. You can change the future. You can’t change the past, but you can
change the future. Okay? Station six.
Questioner: Good afternoon. My name is Caroline and I’m a lawyer in San Diego. Please don’t hold that again
with me. Remember, Mr Munger was once an attorney too. First, I’d like to sincerely thank you, Mr Buffett, for
your business integrity, tireless leadership, and generous contribution to philanthropy. My question for the
distinguished panel of two is, now that the AI genie is out of the bottle, as someone astutely put it earlier today,
what business in Berkshire Hathaway may be most at risk with AI.
Warren Buffett: Well, that’s a wonderful question. The problem is I really don’t know anything about AI,
obviously, anything that’s labor intensive and that it can create an enormous amount of leisure time. Now, what
the world does with leisure time is another question, whether more leisure time. I know an awful lot of people
think when they go to work at first what they want is leisure time. And what I like is actually having more
problems to solve. But AI is profound. That’s what makes it, makes it a genie. Is what going to happen?

I could tell a few genie jokes but I better not. I guess. When we probably, I don’t know what, you know, in terms
of our businesses, they’ll figure things out. I mean, we’ve got smart people. Obviously, if it’s used in a pro social
way, it’s got terrific benefits to society. But I don’t know how you make sure that that’s what happens any more
than I know how to be sure that when you use two atomic bombs in World War Two that you knew that you
hadn’t created something that could destroy the world later on.
Greg Abel: Yeah, I think when we think of AI at a lot of the business units, I mean, we’re truly one, trying to
think how does it make us more efficient, more effective? I mean, it results in more idle time. And we’re
probably not thinking of the iterative AI where we’re looking at very specific processes where our people can
implement it. And either at times it displaces the labor, but then hopefully there’s other opportunities for them
within the business. But I think when you think of all our businesses, I mean, we do have a heavy labor
workforce and a lot of them, but I think at the stage we’re at as a company and maybe where it’s at right now,
it’s really around how do we do things more effective, more efficiently, more safely, if it involves dangerous
processes? So we’re early innings.
Warren Buffett: John Maynard Keynes was just wonderful to read and incredible mind. But in around the time I
was born, he wrote a book about what could happen. I don’t know whether it was in the next hundred years or
whatever. And he predicted correctly that that output per capita would grow at this incredible rate that it has.
But in terms of speculating as what people would do with that, I mean, this guy was unbelievably smart, but it
hasn’t developed exactly the way he predicted. He was right about what was going to go into the equation, but
he wasn’t. He didn’t have it figured out exactly what at all, what would be the result? So it is really, well, we
didn’t know when we were developing the bomb that there would probably be this very soon nine countries,
three of whom we should worry about plenty that will have what they have, but we didn’t really have any
choice. And you could have had all kinds of papers written on and everything else, but we were going to do it
anyway. We needed to do it.
And if you haven’t read it, it’s fascinating to go to Google and read the letter by Leo Szilard and Albert Einstein
to President Roosevelt, written about a month before, almost exactly a month before Germany moved into
Poland. And it laid out well, Leo Szilard knew what was going to happen or had a good hunch of what was
going to happen in terms of nuclear bomb development. And he couldn’t get through to Roosevelt. But he
knew that a letter signed by Albert Einstein would. So it’s probably the most important letter ever written and
you can read it, which is just fascinating to me, but that started the Manhattan project. That started it. Just
everything flowed out of it. And I’ll bet anything that Roosevelt didn’t understand it, but he understood that
Albert Einstein sent a letter and he probably knew what he was talking about. And he better get, he better start
the Manhattan project. It is just unbelievable what happens in this world. Anyway, let’s move on to Becky, I
guess, is next, right?
Becky Quick: Yep. Randy Jeffs from Irvine, California. The March 25, 2024 Wall Street Journal reported that
the treasury market is about six fold larger than before the 2008-2009 crisis. Do you think that at some point in
time the world market will no longer be able to absorb all of the US debt being offered? Well, I would say the
answer, of course, I don’t know, but my best speculation is that US debt will be acceptable but for a very long
time because there’s not much alternative. But it won’t be the quantity. The national debt was nothing to speak
of for a long, long time. It won’t be the quantity. It will be whether in any way inflation would get let loose in a
way that really threatened the whole world economic situation.
And there really isn’t any alternative to the dollar as a reserve currency. And you get a lot of people who give
you a lot of speeches on that, but that really is the answer. And Paul Volcker worried about that back in 19,
before 1980, but he had threats on his life. And I happened to have a little contact with him at that time. He was
an amazing amazing fellow that, in effect, decided that he had to act or really the financial system would fall

apart in some way that he couldn’t predict. And he did it and he had people threatening his life and do all kinds
of things, but he was the man for that crisis. But it wasn’t the quantity of US debt that was being offered that
threatened the system then. It was the fact that inflation and the future value of the dollar, the cash is trash type
thinking that turned, that was setting up something that could really affect the future of the world in terms of its
economic system. And Paul Volcker took it on and he was (inaudible) as could be.
And if you haven’t read a book or two about him or the one he last wrote, you really ought to take a look at it.
But it is, I don’t worry about the quantity, I worry about the fiscal deficit, but I’m not a worrier just generally, I
mean I think about it, but I don’t sit and get up, work myself into a stew about it in the least. But I, but I can’t
help thinking about it and that’s, we’ve got a, we’ve got a great attention. It’s interesting, I think media enters
into this and focuses on the Fed and they, you know, they just love it because things are always happening and
economists are always saying what’s going to happen with the fed and everything else. But the fiscal deficit is
what should be focused on. And Jay Powell is not only a great human being, but he’s, he’s a very, very wise
man, but he doesn’t control fiscal policy.
And every now and then he sends out a kind of a disguised plea for please pay attention to this because that’s
where the trouble will be if we have it. As one of the comics used to say, there was a stand up comic used to
say, who have I forgotten to offend after this talk? And I always feel like that after these meetings. But we’ve
got time for at least one question and maybe two. But let’s go to station seven.
Questioner: Hello, my name is Dennis from Giffon, Germany. By my first time here, I’m here with my friend who
would, by the way, love to invite you to dinner. You talked about the importance of heroes, and we are very
happy to and thankful that we have you as our hero with great values and thank you for that. First of all, my
question is, it is clear that you achieved great success in life. Earlier you talked about every investment having
opportunity cost. From what I’ve learned in life, that does not only apply it to investing your money, but also to
investing your time. Every hour you spend in your office is an hour you cannot spend with your spouse or
children. With the life experience you have now, if you had the possibility to start all over again, would you set
your priorities any different? If yes, how and why? And what’s the best way to invite you to dinner?
Warren Buffett: That definitely won’t be one of my priorities if I figure out how to do that. But don’t take it
personally, because you can figure out at the maximum all the period I’ve got. I don’t think, I mean, I can figure
out all kinds of things that should have been done differently, but so what, you know, I mean, I’m not perfect. I
don’t believe in lots of self criticism or being unrealistic about either what you are or what you’ve accomplished
or what you’d like to do. You do the, you know, you do a lot of things and who knows whether somewhat
different trade offs. You know, you just can’t, you can’t. You don’t know what the paths would have led. I feel. I
don’t think there’s any, any room in beating up yourself over what’s happened in the past. It’s happened and
you get to live the rest of the life and you don’t know how long it’s going to be. And you keep trying to do the
things that are important to you.
If I was a doctor or if I was all kinds of different professions, I might do different things, but I really enjoy
managing money for people who trust me. I don’t have any reason to do it for financial reasons. I’m not running
a hedge fund or getting an override or anything, but I just like the feeling of being trusted. Charlie felt the same
way. You know, that’s a good way to feel in life and it continues to be a good feeling. So I’m not really looking to
change much. And, you know, if I’m very lucky, I get to play it off for six or seven years and it could end
tomorrow. But that’s. That’s true of everybody. Although the equation isn’t exactly the same. But I don’t believe
in beating yourself up over anything you’ve done in the past. And I don’t believe in, well, I believe in trying to
find what you’re good at, what you enjoy. And then I think the one thing that you can aspire to be, because this
can be done by anybody and it’s amazing, doesn’t have anything to do with money. But you can be kind. You
can be kind if you’re. And then the world’s better off.

I’m not sure that the world will be better off if I’m richer, but there’s no question that. I mean, you know, kind
people, and in the end, aspire to be more. Or I’m sure many of you are yourself, but just aspire to be more. So.
And I guess we can take one more question from Becky, and then we’d wind up.
Becky Quick: This question comes from Devon Spurgeon. On March 4, Charlie’s will was filed with the county
of Los Angeles. The first codicil contained an unusual provision. It reads, averaged out, my long life has been a
favored one, made better by duty, imposed by family tradition, requiring righteousness and service. Therefore, I
follow an old practice that I wish was more common now, inserting an ethical bequeath that gives priority not to
property, but to transmission of duty. If you were to make an ethical bequest to Berkshire shareholders, what
duties would you impose and why?
Warren Buffett: I’d probably say read, Charlie. I mean, he’s expressed it well, and I would. Well, I would say
that if they’re not financially well off, if you’re being kind, you’re doing something that most of the rich people
don’t do, even when they give away money. But that’s on the question of whether you’re rich or poor. And I
would say, if you’re lucky in life, make sure a bunch of other people are lucky, too. Okay. Just in case. You
know what my advice to myself would be has been during this period.
So we only got 33 questions, or whatever it is. But thank you very, very much for coming, and I not only hope
that you come next year, but I hope I come next year.

