人员的讲话
1998 :

各位同事，欢迎加入步步高公司营销人员的行列，成为这个大家庭中
的成员。作为步步高的营销人员，希望你们热爱本职工作，执着于这
一事业，成为步步高事业前进的排头兵。
在这里，有必要让大家了解我们这个企业的理念和精神。我们做企业
最根本的东西，就是本分。说话要算数，是一种本分。守信誉不是给
人看的，为了一个承诺去赔钱，可能很多企业家会赖帐，但我会毫不
犹豫地践诺。我曾经为一个承诺赔了 1800 多万元。客观地讲，信誉是
一笔巨大的无形资产，守信誉能带来巨大的收获，步步高发展到今
天，正是得益于良好的信誉得到股东的支持。我觉得好汉应能吃眼前
亏，吃了眼前亏将来才不会吃亏，有的人看上去很聪明，算得很精，
甚至能骗钱，但他赚不着大钱。只有智慧的人才能挣大钱，他不会去
玩手腕，不会去骗人，而这种企业家往往能将企业做大。
企业不要什么钱都赚，这是一种本分。企业应该有道德，有自己的原
则。有些生意哪怕再赚钱，如果违背自己做企业的原则，那我肯定不
会去做的。企业不能不赢利，但赢利应该建立在对市场的准确把握的
基础上进行合法经营。如果什么钱都想挣，这种企业永远也长不大。
企业挣钱固然非常重要，但挣钱的过程更充满了乐趣，如果挣钱就是
目的，那目光就太短浅， 这种企业很难长大。做企业要有责任感，而
不是简单的为了赚钱，赚钱只是一个过程。企业存在要有价值，比如
为社会创造财富，提供就业机会等。
企业不是什么事都做，这是一种本分。也就是遵循“焦点法则”，把
80%的精力放在 20%的事情上，那么 20%的事情会带来 80%的效益。
有多大能力做多大的事，而不是有多大的胆量。实际上每个企业的资

源都是有限的，包括人力、物力、财力，把这有限的资源用到无限的
投资方向上去肯定要出问题，有的企业什么都在做，但都没有什么特
点，你不知道它到底是干什么的。这种企业的问题也许短期内不会表
现出来，但将来很麻烦。必须要集中优势兵力打歼灭战，即在一个企
业中实现焦点化，集中一个行业中最尖端的技术开发出最尖端的产
品。企业就那么点能力和规模，不可能再分散资源，我不相信有天上
掉馅饼的事。
要老老实实做事，是我们做企业的准则。做企业其实非常简单，没有
什么花拳绣腿，最厉害的招数是没有招的招，一拳打出去，非常朴
实。我觉得也跟做学问、搞科研一样，勤奋和坚韧都是非常重要的，
爱迪生关于成功的公式：99%的汗水加 1%的灵感，这里同样适合。必
须老老实实做事，做企业就像长跑赛一样，唯有老老实实保持匀速前
进，不偷懒、不投机者才不会被淘汰。一个企业在成长过程中，随时
都可能遇到困难和挫折，有时甚至是灾难性的打击，但企业家必须能
扛得住，绝不能放弃自己的追求，很多人老是埋怨自己的运气不好，
在逆境中沮丧，甚至走向颓废，这实际上是意志品质不够好。企业家
应该有一种精神，百折不挠，方能致胜。
要处理好企业的利益链。一个企业都有一个利益链，供应商也好，批
发商、零售商也好，消费者也好，都是利益链中的一环。就企业内部
来说，从高层管理人员、中层管理人员一直到基层的工人，都有其利
益要求。俗话说，有钱大家赚。各方面的利益处理得好，这利益链就
会运转正常，如果某一个环节出了问题，那么就会一损俱损，因此每
一个环节都不能忽视。
要敢为天下后。我觉得敢为天下后对较小的企业尤其重要。我们实力
本来就不强，很难跟世界级的大公司相比，因此，我先看人家国外大
企业做什么产品，而且要看它什么产品好卖， 然后我再做什么，这样
成功的机率要大得多。其实，先与后是相对的，暂时的。进入市场有

先后之分，这只是竞争的开始，后来者确有不利之处，但超越前人本
身就是巨大的动力和目标，而且在更后面看清对手和市场，更容易看
到，自己的差距，也更容易少走弯路，只要能找到突破口，就可以集
中优势兵力，快速切入，快速跟进，后来居上。
不攻击对手。我觉得互相攻击是种不健康的行为，做企业要有点风
度，攻击对手恰恰是没有自信的表现。心态上要沾染这些东西，纵然
一时得手，将来总是要摔交的。
靠攻击别人过日子，是得不偿失。其实，每个企业都有自己的长处，
也有自己的短处，宣传自己的长处就行了。
我一直这么认为，一个企业的失败，企业家要负主要责任；一个企业
的成功，功劳肯定是大家的。我们的企业的成功与发展需要各方面的
人才，给大家提供充分施展才华的舞台,提高我们的专业化水平和企业
的素质。市场竞争的背后其实是人才素质的竞争。企业的发展，需要
我们的人才队伍不断壮大。
我们正在处在一个竞争日趋国际化的时代，我们的企业面临更为严峻
的挑战。与跨国公司这些重量级的企业相比，我们还是一个弱者，我
们在资金、技术、管理、经验及产品开发能力上都必然要逊一筹。我
们要不断努力缩小与他们的差距，提高我们的专业化水平和整体素
质；我们要把企业做大，把它培养成为世界级和重量级的选手。为
此，需要大家励精图治，共同努力，共同奋斗。

段永平：遵循本分，用平常心迎接
21世纪
世纪来了，似乎世界就要发生巨大变化，似乎赶英超美就要实现，
似乎......
其实，21世纪的每一天都和我们过去经历的每一天一样，依然是那样
平凡。每一个人都必须依然需要吃饭，需要工作，每一个人都依然希
望生活会更好，身体更健康。让我们用平常心去迎接新的世纪的到来
吧。
在这喧器、噪动的世界里，要保持一颗平常心是不容易的，外面的诱
惑实在是太多。但平常心对于企业的生存实在是太重要了。
平常心对于我们企业来说意味着什么呢？我觉得至少我们不应该相
信“神话”，诸如“点石成金”、“水变石油”，练某某功可以让你成仙，
或者是让你交100元，教你一个一夜暴富的秘诀之类的神话。企业就是
由点点滴滴的平常组成的，每一个产品的开发和设计，每一件产品的
品质和服务，每一个消费者的感觉和评价，每一位员工的工作和生活
费…，平常的功夫就是实力，平常的积累才可能创造奇迹。君不见中
国足球场缺乏平常心。试想想，没有足够的群众基础，没有足够的日
积月累和训练，为了一场球的胜负就可以让一个不错的教练下课， 如
此急功近利，怎么可能有所作为？很难想象就算侥幸偶然冲出去一
次，又将是一个如何丢人现眼的场面。
企业和竞技是非常相似的，任何一个运动员或队的成功和成绩无不依
赖于他们平时的科学及刻苦的训练，永远无法想象一个业余运动员可
以靠偶然的因素去赢取一场高水准的职业比赛。我们的企业也正是要
21

像一个运动员一样，通过日积月累和刻苦训练，逐渐成为一个高水准
职业运动员。这就是我们的平常心。
既然是职业运动员，我们当然是要靠赢取比赛来生存和发展。赢取比
赛就是我们的进取心。在任何一场比赛中的获胜，除了技术功底以
外，拼搏精神往往至关重要，没有强烈的进取心是无法去拼搏的。当
然，棋逢对手的时候，我们还必须要有耐心。要知道，我们的比赛都
应是超长距离的马拉松的比赛，任何妄图靠一招一式赢取比赛的想法
都将是幼稚的。我们要以平常心去跑出每一步，以坚韧的耐心去坚持
下去，以强烈的进取心去拼搏，去赢取每一场比赛最后的胜利。
我们是一个企业，一个集体，一个团队。企业的推动一定要依仗每一
个员工的共同努力。我个人一直认为，一个企业的失败往往只是一个
人的过错，那就是最高领导者的过错，但一个企业的成功则一定是大
家的功劳。所以我们企业承包的长远发展和不断成功一定是要靠每一
个岗位的员工共同努力才可能达成的。
由于我们是一个团队，团队的前进不光要有规范的管理制度，在很多
的时候还需要靠整体员工的责任心才能达成最佳效果。中国的文化并
不是一个很容易培养责任心的文化，我们公司两年多以前发生的一件
事一直都让我难以忘记。记得当时我们刚开始生产电子宠物的台湾同
行，因为怀疑员工偷拿公司产品，所以采取对员工进行搜身，他们都
在采用类似的办法。记得当时我的观点是：除非当时在线的每个人都
拿过，否则绝不可以用这种办法和自己的员工打交道！但如果我们真
的无法找到能够管理这类产品的办法，我宁愿放弃这个产品也不可破
坏我们的原则！我真诚希望下个世纪不会再有类似的事情发生。

每当我看到饭堂里排队的人群，每当我看到宿舍抱着孩子的家属，我
就会感到自己责任重大，不容闪失。其实我们每一个人都同样肩负着
对团队、对家庭的各种各样的责任，只有一个有责任心的团队才有可
能去抱团打天下，也只有一个具有爱心的团队，才有可能维系我们
的；团队精神。
平常心、进取心、耐心、责任心和爱心形成了我们企业的本分，它是
我们企业走到今天这一步的基本点，也是下个世纪我们要继续遵循的
基本原则。只要能坚守这一点，凭借大家的能力和努力，我们企业的
发展和壮大将只是时日的问题。我绝对相信，未来会更美更好！
革命尚未成功，同志还需努力。让我们一起进入一个更美好的世纪
吧！
最后，顺便提一句，新的世纪的到来确实是个下决心做某件事的好时
机，我的决心是绝不把抽烟的恶习带入下个世纪，你的决心是什么
呢？
顺祝各位身体健康！

年段永平学长在浙江大学的毕
业演讲
2011

演讲全文：
各位同学，终于到了可以叫你们校友的时候了！ 前段时间校友会张老
师叫我来毕业典礼上讲个2-3分钟话，从那时起我就一直在想，这2-3
分钟里讲什么能让有些人20-30年以后还记得并从中得益呢？
第一，做个胸无“大”志的人。

首先要强调的是，这里的“大”是好大喜功的大。所谓胸无“大”志，指
的是脚踏实地的做事态度。我们要胸无“大”志地去做自己喜欢的事
情，同时，还要努力去喜欢自己在做的事情。我觉得，只有在做自己
喜欢的事情的时候，才能激发自己最大的潜力，所以每个人首先要花
很大精力去寻找自己喜欢的事情。同时，我也要强调后面一点，喜欢
自己在做的事情。大学刚毕业就马上找到自己喜欢的事情，是可遇不
可求的。很多时候，当我们投入到自己的工作中后，会慢慢找到很多
乐趣，在努力的过程中，会渐渐发现自己喜欢做什么。所以，努力喜
欢自己做的事情很重要。胸无“大”志，需要大家慢慢体会。
第二， 做个有所不为的人。
我们有句话叫做“有所为，有所不为”。我们常常注意到要“有所为”，
但我要强调的是“有所不为”。我很早就听说过，要做对的事情，然后
把事情做对。在经历了这些年，经历很多次的头破血流之后，我才真
正开始明白这句话是什么意思。所谓做对的事情，就是知道是错的事
情决不要做，知道做错了马上要改。这个说起来容易，做起来困难。
知道做错了马上改，不管多大的代价，到最后往往是最小的代价。我
看到很多人明知是错，犯了错之后抱着侥幸的心态，浪费很多年之后
最后要付出更大的代价。希望大家不要碰到这样的情况。很多人问
我，为什么我们公司在消费电子领域这么多年之后一直存在，我们就
是守诚信、平常心、坚守本分。本分就是有所不为的意思。把事情做
对，本身是个学习的过程，这个过程当中是要犯很多错误的。有种说
法“不怕犯错误”，我们做对的事情时，要避免犯错，但把事情做对的
过程中会犯很多错误，这个大家要理解。还有个说法“永不放弃”，就
是要坚持对的事情，如果是错的事情，要立即回头。
第三，做个正直的人。

无论能否做到以上两点，但最基本的是要做个正直的人。我不知道做
个正直的人，会有什么回报，但至少让人一生坦然。
我就讲这三点，大学毕业是我们进入社会大学的起点，我们要学习的
东西是无穷无尽的。最后，衷心祝愿每一位同学都能找到属于自己的
精彩人生。
（完）
Source

Warren Buffett’s Meeting with University of Maryland MBA Students –
November 15, 2013
December 8th, 2013 by dkass under Uncategorized. 18 Comments. (Notes
taken by Professor David Kass, Department of Finance, Robert H. Smith
School of Business, University of Maryland and Rahul Shah, MBA student)
Warren Buffett (WB) met with 20 MBA students from each of eight
universities, including the University of Maryland, on November 15, 2013.
The MBA students asked 16 questions in the following order:
(1) Has Berkshire Hathaway (BRK) lowered its hurdle rate as it grew
larger?
WB: BRK does not have a hurdle rate. The added capital makes it harder to
achieve superior returns. If I manage $1 million I will get better returns than
managing $210 billion (BRK’s net worth). Size is the enemy of
performance. I would still rather manage $210 billion than $1 million.
(2) In the past you said you attribute 85% of your investing to Benjamin
Graham and 15% to Philip Fisher. Has that percentage changed?
WB: I developed my investment strategy under Graham. I went to
Columbia and learned from Graham. With Graham’s approach, you cannot
lose money over time. It’s very quantitative in nature, and you have to do
reasonably well. On the other hand, it has less and less application as you
get into bigger and bigger companies with larger sums of money. It’s better
to buy wonderful businesses at fair prices than so-so businesses at low
prices.

With the “cigar approach”, you can find a nasty cigar on the ground, with
one puff left, can pick it up, light it and you get a free puff. You can keep
doing this and get many free puffs. That’s one approach, that’s what I did. I
looked for very cheap stocks quantitatively. After exposure to Fisher and
Charlie, I started looking for better companies. Previously I was doing both.
Now we are looking for good companies, not just cheap companies.
Railroads are huge, and they will be good in 10 years, and 100 years from
now. Burlington Northern is now earning $6 billion pre-tax, as compared to
$3 billion a few years ago before we bought it. Moving much towards
Fisher now and less Ben Graham because we are working with larger sums.
With smaller sums, we would be looking at better margins/cheaper stocks.
When I got out of school, I went through Moody’s manual page by page.
Got to page 1433 and learned the good ones were in the back. Western
insurance company in 1951 was earning $29.09 a share, the year before
$21.66. The price of the stock had traded between 3 and 13 the previous 12
months. The price was at 16 when I saw it, less than 1 x earnings. A few
years ago, in 2004, someone told me I should look at Korea. I got a book
from Citigroup which had 1 stock to a page. Describes all the publicly
traded companies in Korea. Went through it and found about 20 companies
(ex. Day-Han flower mills) it had book value, eps, and securities. Didn’t tell
you anything about the share until you look at the price. Found about 20
like that in an afternoon and bought some of all of them, but didn’t know
enough about all of them to load up on them. If you buy 20 stocks selling at
2 times earnings, you’re going to make money. That’s Ben Graham and you
can make money doing this. If you’re working with bigger money, you have
to do Fisher/Charlie style and buy big businesses. Berkshire now looks for

large, very strong companies. Like Nebraska Furniture Mart – bought in
1983 and it’s probably earning 20 times as much now. Charlie told me –
“You’re never going to disagree with me because you’re smart and I’m
always right”.
(3) What is the process you follow in writing the annual shareholders letter?
How do you decide what you’re going to write about?
WB: I finished the 2013 letter already, but I will send it out on Feb 28. I
already know what I’m going to say, just have to fill in some numbers and
send it off.
I try to think of my shareholders as my partners. I try to think of the
information I would want them to send me if they were running the place,
and I was the shareholder. What would I want to know? This is what I tell
them. In my first draft, I address it to my sisters who don’t know a lot about
finance. “Dear sisters”- I explain to them what they would want to know in
their position. I also like to write one section that is a general teaching
lesson that doesn’t directly apply to Berkshire. This year 2600 words (out of
11,500) are thoughts about investing. I’m talking to all people thinking
about investing and how they should go about it. I take one subject and just
write a chapter on this, annually. Some people are interested, some are not.
If they’re going to have most of their money with me, I like to talk to them
as if they are in the room with me — economic principles of BRK – so
people know what we are all about.
In 1956 I bought a ledger for $0.49, two pieces of paper for a partnership
document but didn’t worry about the partnership agreement. I just explained
the ground rules in about half a page: This is what I can do, this is what I

can’t do, this is how I intend to go about it, and this is how I measure my
success. If this looks good to you, then buy in. If you don’t want to buy in,
then don’t – we can still be friends. These ground rules are in the back of
the Berkshire Hathaway report tailored to investors. In our ground rules,
though our management is corporate our attitude is partnership. We
consider you as partners. You need to have common ground, just like a
marriage. It would be crazy to get married when you differ on important
points. The annual shareholders report is ready now. BRK has unusual
shareholders, many of whom have 80% of their net worth in BRK. I have
almost 100% of my net worth in BRK. But if the market goes down 50%
we might rewrite it (laughter).
(4) Why did you convert Goldman Sachs warrants into a smaller stake in
the company?
WB: Goldman Sachs and GE, we helped finance them in 2008 which I
never dreamt would happen (Imagine GE calling you, telling you they need
your financing assistance). BRK received warrants with preferred stocks,
expiring in 5 years (Sept 2013). Warrants to buy $5 billion Goldman Sachs
common stock and $3 billion GE common stock. If we exercised, we would
have had to invest an additional $8 billion. These two companies didn’t
want to issue all of those new shares. Earlier this year we decided, they
didn’t want to issue all of those shares, we didn’t want to spend $8 billion.
Let’s do a settlement, both wanted to. We didn’t have to lay out cash and
they didn’t need to issue all of those shares. BRK ended up with Goldman
Sachs shares valued close to $2 billion without any outlay of BRK’s cash.
GE was only $200 million. BRK has only one big warrant issue remaining,
with Bank of America. We have warrants that entitle us to buy 700 million

shares at $7.14 a share ($5 billion) through August 2021. We’ll hold the
warrants until the dividend becomes high or we’ll hold until right before the
expiration. Goldman Sachs and GE deals are interesting – who would have
guessed those 5 years ago. The money market failed because of Lehman.
Money market funds held a lot of Lehman paper. It happened overnight,
30+ million Americans who believed money markets were safe, and then
Lehman fails. This caused a major money market fund to “break the buck”
and lose value. It became a great silent electronic run on money markets.
There was $3 1/2 trillion in money market funds and $175 billion of funds
flowed out in the first three days after Lehman failed. All money market
funds held commercial paper. Companies like GE had a lot of commercial
paper. After this, American industry literally stopped. George Bush said, “If
money doesn’t loosen up, this sucker will go down” – I believe this was the
greatest economic statement of all time. This is why he backed up Paulson
and Bernanke. Companies were counting on the commercial paper market.
In September 2008, we came right to the abyss. If Paulson and Bernanke
had not intervened, in two more days it would have been all over. BRK
always has $20 billion or more in cash. It sounds crazy, never need anything
like it, but some day in the next 100 years when the world stops again, we
will be ready. There will be some incident, it could be tomorrow. At that
time, you need cash. Cash at that time is like oxygen. When you don’t need
it, you don’t notice it. When you do need it, it’s the only thing you need. We
operate from a level of liquidity that no one else does. We don’t want to
operate on bank lines. There is no authority for the US Treasury to
guarantee money market funds. Their power comes from Congress. Paulson
set up an exchange stabilization fund in September 2008 to guarantee
money market funds. This stopped the run of money market funds and it

was all over. Something like that will happen maybe a couple of times in
your lifetime. Two things when it happens again – don’t let it ruin you, and
if you have money/guts, you’ll have an opportunity to buy things at prices
that don’t make sense. Fear spreads fast, it is contagious. Doesn’t have
anything to do with IQ. Confidence only comes back one at a time, not en
masse. There are periods when fear paralyzes the investment world. You
don’t want to owe money at that time, and if you have money then you want
to buy at those times. “Be greedy when others are fearful, and fearful when
others are greedy”.
(5) How has your understanding of markets contributed towards your
political views?
WB: I wouldn’t say knowledge of markets has. My political views were
formed by this process. Just imagine that it is 24 hours before you are born.
A genie comes and says to you in the womb, “You look like an
extraordinarily responsible, intelligent, potential human being. Going to
emerge in 24 hours and it is an enormous responsibility I am going to assign
to you – determination of the political, economic and social system into
which you are going to emerge. You set the rules, any political system,
democracy, parliamentary, anything you wish, can set the economic
structure, communistic, capitalistic, set anything in motion and I guarantee
you that when you emerge this world will exist for you, your children and
grandchildren. What’s the catch? One catch – just before you emerge you
have to go through a huge bucket with 7 billion slips, one for each human.
Dip your hand in and that is what you get – you could be born intelligent or
not intelligent, born healthy or disabled, born black or white, born in the US
or in Bangladesh, etc. You have no idea which slip you will get. Not

knowing which slip you are going to get, how would you design the world?
Do you want men to push around females? It’s a 50/50 chance you get
female. If you think about the political world, you want a system that gets
what people want. You want more and more output because you’ll have
more wealth to share around. The US is a great system, turns out $50,000
GDP per capita, 6 times the amount when I was born in just one lifetime.
But not knowing what slip you get, you want a system that once it produces
output, you don’t want anyone to be left behind. You want to incentivize the
top performers, don’t want equality in results, but do want something that
those who get the bad tickets still have a decent life. You also don’t want
fear in people’s minds – fear of lack of money in old age, fear of cost of
health care. I call this the “Ovarian Lottery”. My sisters didn’t get the same
ticket. Expectations for them were that they would marry well, or if they
work, would work as a nurse, teacher, etc. If you are designing the world
knowing 50/50 male or female, you don’t want this type of world for
women – you could get female. Design your world this way; this should be
your philosophy. I look at Forbes 400, look at their figures and see how it’s
gone up in the last 30 years. Americans at the bottom are also improving,
and that is great, but we don’t want that degree of inequality. Only
governments can correct that. Right way to look at it is the standpoint of
how you would view the world if you didn’t know who you would be. If
you’re not willing to gamble with your slip out of 100 random slips, you are
lucky! The top 1% of 7 billion people. Everyone is wired differently. You
can’t say you do everything yourself. We all have teachers, and people
before us who led us to where we are. We can’t let people fall too far
behind. You all definitely got good slips.

(6) You are one of the few male CEO’s who champions women in the
workplace. Can you talk about your reasoning and how we can contribute
our intelligence to the workplace? (from a woman speaker)
WB: We wrote the Declaration of Independence in 1776 – “All men are
created equal” etc. In 1789 we wrote a Constitution – on second thoughts…
blacks are only 3/5 of a person. They slipped up. They wrote in such a way
that they didn’t have to use gender pronouns. They gave themselves away
in presidency, they said “He”. Pretty soon all men are created equal became
all males are created equal. Move forward to the Gettysburg address,
Lincoln repeated the line about All men are created equal. Slipped over the
fact that women couldn’t vote, couldn’t even inherit money in some states.
Finally, in 1920, 131 years into this new venture of governance, “Oh yea,
women should have a fair stake in vote.” After this, many justices were
appointed before O’Connor was. Everyone had expectations of me as a
child, but my sisters who were just as smart, were delegated to something
different. Here is this country, think about how far we came from using half
our talent. Now we are beginning to unleash the potential of the other half.
If we only allow people to be CEO’s, accountants or lawyers if they are
above 5’10″, and people under 5’10″ must become nurses, etc. that would
be crazy, we could not unleash potential. Same thing was the case for
women. No one realized it, my dad didn’t, and my teachers didn’t. Women
are obviously just as smart and work just as hard. No one is better at
running our annual meetings than Carrie. I think its nuts for a CEO to pass
up the most talented person based on their gender. But we are going in the
right direction. We’re moving towards the ideals we set, but these ideals set
by Jefferson weren’t practiced until much later.

(7) How do you assess management when acquiring a company?
I handed Mrs. B (Nebraska Furniture Mart) a big check, and none of them
(managers of acquired firms) had to work anymore. But will they behave
the same after they get the money and I get the stock certificate? Will they
work just as hard when they’re putting money in their own pocket?
3/4 of our managers are independently wealthy. These people don’t need to
go to work, but they are putting the work in. If I give him 4 billion dollars,
will it be the same results next month? Next year? I don’t deal with
contracts; I have to size up whether management is going to continue
working that same way. Generally, I’ve been right in my assessments and
I’ve gotten better. They don’t need me, I need them. Why do I come to
work? I can do anything I want to do, and yet I come out every morning and
can’t wait to get into work. I enjoy working Saturdays, talking to students.
Why do I do it? I get to paint my own painting. Berkshire Hathaway is my
painting. People love creating things. I think I’m Michelangelo, painting the
Sistine Chapel but it could look like a blob to someone else. Second thing –
I want applause. I like it when people appreciate my painting. If others have
their own paintings, then who am I to tell them how to paint it? (Just like
management) I appreciate what they do. I know the game, so when I praise
them, they know they’re getting approval from a critic they like. I have their
stock certificate, but it’s still their business. It’s a good culture when
managers really care about the business.
(8) Now information is everywhere. If you were born in Peru today, could
you have thrived in the same manner?

WB: Yes, I do. Things are changing around the world. People are able to
move within and up through socio-economic classes. America didn’t work
harder when increasing GDP more than other countries, we allowed for
equal opportunity. Didn’t even work smarter, just unleashed greater
potential. The world is allowing for opportunities for all.
(9) What career path would you advise someone who wants to go into
investing today?
WB: You just want to learn everything about it. There’s so much to learn.
Learning what works and what doesn’t work, where value resides and
where value doesn’t reside. Got my feet wet, at 11 years old (1942) I bought
3 shares of Cities Service Preferred at $38 1/4. At the same time, my older
sister Doris bought also bought 3 shares and my dad bought 4 shares, so we
had a round lot of 10 shares. My sister Doris complained about the price of
the stock every day when going to school. So I sold it at $42. Two years
later the shares sold for $200.
I would try to manage money with an audited record so that it would attract
more people when doing well. I like running businesses better than
investing. It is more fun building businesses than moving money around.
Todd Combs and Ted Weschler are each managing $6 1/2 billion. They each
are earning less money than they would if they were running their own
hedge funds. But they like being at Berkshire. They have enough money.
They have the character that I admire.
(10) Question seeking advice for women.

WB: I recommend reading Personal History by Katherine Graham.
Presidents came to see her. She overcame the handicap that her mother and
husband told her she was nothing. Many women are succeeding today as
CEO’s. Susan Jacques, CEO of Borsheim’s, is leaving to head the
Worldwide Gem Association.
(11) You were the first person to use the term “moats” as competitive
advantage.
Morningstar has built on this. What do you think about Morningstar’s work
on moats? WB: I think they’re doing a great job. I came up with this term
40+ years ago because in capitalism, you have these economic castles.
Apple, Microsoft, etc. Some have smaller castles. If you have a castle in
capitalism, people are going to try to capture it. You need 2 things – a moat
around the castle, and you need a knight in the castle who is trying to widen
the moat around the castle. How did Coca-Cola build their moat? They
deepened the thought in people’s minds that Coca-Cola is where happiness
is. The moat is what’s in your mind. Railroad moats are barriers to entry.
Geico’s moat is low prices. Every day we try to widen the moat. See’s
Candies creates a moat in the minds of consumers. It is a more effective gift
on Valentine’s Day than Russell Stover. See’s Candies has raised its price
every year on December 26 for 41 years. BRK bought See’s Candies for
$25 million in 1972. Today it earns $80 million. Richard Branson failed 10
years ago with Virgin Cola. Snickers has been the number one candy bar for
40 years.
(12) How do you balance work/family life and what advice do you have for
a young professional?

WB: The most important decision you’re going make is who you’re going
to marry. What’s important is that what your thoughts are on big things,
must make sure that your spouse has the same thoughts on the same big
things. Don’t marry someone to change them. Marry someone who is a
better person than you are. Always associate yourself with people who are
better than you.
(13) Do you have a goal of beating the Dow Jones Industrials by 10
percentage points each year?
WB: Years ago, I was trying to beat the Dow (would be the S&P today).
Goal was to beat the Dow by 10 points this year. If the Dow was down 20%
and we were down 10%, that would be fine. We don’t have some number
we expect to make from some business or security. We do what we can that
we think is the best at the time. Is this the most intelligent thing we can do,
within our circle of competence, that doesn’t strain our resources?
Hopefully we say yes. We generally think the value of a company is the PV
of cash flows until judgment day.
If you really get back to investments – 2600 year ago the expression was “A
bird in the hand is worth two in the bush”. But you need to question it –
How sure are you that there are two in the bush? How far is the bush? What
is the interest rate? (laughter) In investments, you lay out money now and
get more money later on. Berkshire is putting more birds in the bush all the
time. If you are managing only $1 million, then you should be able to beat
the S&P 500 by 10 percentage points with no risk or leverage.
(14) What was the most difficult negotiation you were ever involved in?
How did you develop your strategy going in?

WB: Only really learned negotiations from my dad. People have different
styles of negotiation. I don’t want to be in a negotiation where it “has to
end” at some point. Don’t want them to have me by the throat while I have
them by the throat. Either we give up or one strangles the other. My style is
different from most peoples, just say what I do. If you do that throughout
your life then stick to it. I can walk away from anything. I say I’ll pay $X,
and normally this is the best deal. I don’t want to lowball, then you counter,
and get to $X anyway. You spend time and money doing that. I just say
what I’ll pay, and that works fine once you establish a reputation. You don’t
want to get in a negotiation that you can’t afford to walk away from.
Bargaining with people you love is a terrible mistake. It’s destructive. The
most powerful force in the world is unconditional love.
(15) What has been your biggest investment mistake and how did you learn
from it?
WB: It is better to learn from other peoples mistakes rather than your own.
Look at all kinds of business failures. I don’t believe in beating yourself
over it, you’re going to make mistakes. My biggest mistake was buying
Berkshire Hathaway and trying to make it better. We had all of our money
in a bad business, had a drag on all of this capital for 20 years. Even after
acquiring National Indemnity. BRK to be the base of what we wanted to
grow, this was a mistake. You cannot play the game without making
mistakes. We bought Dexter Shoe for $400 million in BRK stock which is
now worth $5 – $6 billion. Dexter Shoe went bankrupt as a result of foreign
competition. We lost $2 billion in Energy Future Holding bonds which
KKR had invested in. KKR lost $8 billion.

(16) When managing other peoples money and making mistakes, how do
you deal with the responsibility/burden?
WB: I tell them I’m going to make mistakes, but the goal is to do this and
this and this. I might make mistakes in order to do this, but I will still
probably achieve this goal. I try to operate in a way where I can’t lose
significant sums over time. I might not make the most money this way, but I
will minimize the risk of permanent loss. If there’s 1 in 1000 chance that an
investment decision can threaten permanent loss to other people, I just
won’t do it.

段永平斯坦福大学53问
