operator. BHE’s long-established emphasis on efficiency – even when the company didn’t need it to attain
authorized earnings – leaves us particularly competitive in today’s market (and, more important, in
tomorrow’s as well).
BHE acquired its Iowa utility in 1999. In the year before, that utility employed 3,700 people and produced
19 million megawatt-hours of electricity. Now we employ 3,500 people and produce 29 million megawatthours. That major increase in efficiency allowed us to operate without a rate increase for 16 years, a period
during which industry rates increased 44%.
The safety record of our Iowa utility is also outstanding. It had .79 injuries per 100 employees in 2015
compared to the rate of 7.0 experienced by the previous owner in the year before we bought the operation.
In 2006 BHE purchased PacifiCorp, which operated primarily in Oregon and Utah. The year before our
purchase PacifiCorp employed 6,750 people and produced 52.6 million megawatt-hours. Last year the
numbers were 5,700 employees and 56.3 million megawatt-hours. Here, too, safety improved dramatically,
with the accident-rate-per-100-employees falling from 3.4 in 2005 to .85 in 2015. In safety, BHE now
ranks in the industry’s top decile.
Those outstanding performances explain why BHE is welcomed by regulators when it proposes to buy a
utility in their jurisdiction. The regulators know the company will run an efficient, safe and reliable
operation and also arrive with unlimited capital to fund whatever projects make sense. (BHE has never paid
a dividend to Berkshire since we assumed ownership. No investor-owned utility in America comes close to
matching BHE’s enthusiasm for reinvestment.)
************

The productivity gains that I’ve just spelled out – and countless others that have been achieved in America
– have delivered awesome benefits to society. That’s the reason our citizens, as a whole, have enjoyed – and will
continue to enjoy – major gains in the goods and services they receive.
To this thought there are offsets. First, the productivity gains achieved in recent years have largely
benefitted the wealthy. Second, productivity gains frequently cause upheaval: Both capital and labor can pay a
terrible price when innovation or new efficiencies upend their worlds.
We need shed no tears for the capitalists (whether they be private owners or an army of public
shareholders). It’s their job to take care of themselves. When large rewards can flow to investors from good
decisions, these parties should not be spared the losses produced by wrong choices. Moreover, investors who
diversify widely and simply sit tight with their holdings are certain to prosper: In America, gains from winning
investments have always far more than offset the losses from clunkers. (During the 20th Century, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average – an index fund of sorts – soared from 66 to 11,497, with its component companies all the while
paying ever-increasing dividends.)

23

A long-employed worker faces a different equation. When innovation and the market system interact to
produce efficiencies, many workers may be rendered unnecessary, their talents obsolete. Some can find decent
employment elsewhere; for others, that is not an option.
When low-cost competition drove shoe production to Asia, our once-prosperous Dexter operation folded,
putting 1,600 employees in a small Maine town out of work. Many were past the point in life at which they could
learn another trade. We lost our entire investment, which we could afford, but many workers lost a livelihood they
could not replace. The same scenario unfolded in slow-motion at our original New England textile operation, which
struggled for 20 years before expiring. Many older workers at our New Bedford plant, as a poignant example, spoke
Portuguese and knew little, if any, English. They had no Plan B.
The answer in such disruptions is not the restraining or outlawing of actions that increase productivity.
Americans would not be living nearly as well as we do if we had mandated that 11 million people should forever be
employed in farming.
The solution, rather, is a variety of safety nets aimed at providing a decent life for those who are willing to
work but find their specific talents judged of small value because of market forces. (I personally favor a reformed
and expanded Earned Income Tax Credit that would try to make sure America works for those willing to work.) The
price of achieving ever-increasing prosperity for the great majority of Americans should not be penury for the
unfortunate.
Important Risks
We, like all public companies, are required by the SEC to annually catalog “risk factors” in our 10-K. I
can’t remember, however, an instance when reading a 10-K’s “risk” section has helped me in evaluating a business.
That’s not because the identified risks aren’t real. The truly important risks, however, are usually well known.
Beyond that, a 10-K’s catalog of risks is seldom of aid in assessing: (1) the probability of the threatening event
actually occurring; (2) the range of costs if it does occur; and (3) the timing of the possible loss. A threat that will
only surface 50 years from now may be a problem for society, but it is not a financial problem for today’s investor.
Berkshire operates in more industries than any company I know of. Each of our pursuits has its own array
of possible problems and opportunities. Those are easy to list but hard to evaluate: Charlie, I and our various CEOs
often differ in a very major way in our calculation of the likelihood, the timing and the cost (or benefit) that may
result from these possibilities.
Let me mention just a few examples. To begin with an obvious threat, BNSF, along with other railroads, is
certain to lose significant coal volume over the next decade. At some point in the future – though not, in my view,
for a long time – GEICO’s premium volume may shrink because of driverless cars. This development could hurt our
auto dealerships as well. Circulation of our print newspapers will continue to fall, a certainty we allowed for when
purchasing them. To date, renewables have helped our utility operation but that could change, particularly if storage
capabilities for electricity materially improve. Online retailing threatens the business model of our retailers and
certain of our consumer brands. These potentialities are just a few of the negative possibilities facing us – but even
the most casual follower of business news has long been aware of them.
None of these problems, however, is crucial to Berkshire’s long-term well-being. When we took over the
company in 1965, its risks could have been encapsulated in a single sentence: “The northern textile business in
which all of our capital resides is destined for recurring losses and will eventually disappear.” That development,
however, was no death knell. We simply adapted. And we will continue to do so.

24

Every day Berkshire managers are thinking about how they can better compete in an always-changing
world. Just as vigorously, Charlie and I focus on where a steady stream of funds should be deployed. In that respect,
we possess a major advantage over one-industry companies, whose options are far more limited. I firmly believe
that Berkshire has the money, talent and culture to plow through the sort of adversities I’ve itemized above – and
many more – and to emerge with ever-greater earning power.
There is, however, one clear, present and enduring danger to Berkshire against which Charlie and I are
powerless. That threat to Berkshire is also the major threat our citizenry faces: a “successful” (as defined by the
aggressor) cyber, biological, nuclear or chemical attack on the United States. That is a risk Berkshire shares with all
of American business.
The probability of such mass destruction in any given year is likely very small. It’s been more than 70
years since I delivered a Washington Post newspaper headlining the fact that the United States had dropped the first
atomic bomb. Subsequently, we’ve had a few close calls but avoided catastrophic destruction. We can thank our
government – and luck! – for this result.
Nevertheless, what’s a small probability in a short period approaches certainty in the longer run. (If there is
only one chance in thirty of an event occurring in a given year, the likelihood of it occurring at least once in a
century is 96.6%.) The added bad news is that there will forever be people and organizations and perhaps even
nations that would like to inflict maximum damage on our country. Their means of doing so have increased
exponentially during my lifetime. “Innovation” has its dark side.
There is no way for American corporations or their investors to shed this risk. If an event occurs in the U.S.
that leads to mass devastation, the value of all equity investments will almost certainly be decimated.
No one knows what “the day after” will look like. I think, however, that Einstein’s 1949 appraisal remains
apt: “I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and
stones.”
************
I am writing this section because we have a proxy proposal regarding climate change to consider at this