problem, of course, is that our competitors are just as 
diligently doing the same thing.

     The textile industry illustrates in textbook style how 
producers of relatively undifferentiated goods in capital 
intensive businesses must earn inadequate returns except under 
conditions of tight supply or real shortage.  As long as excess 
productive capacity exists, prices tend to reflect direct 
operating costs rather than capital employed.  Such a supply-
excess condition appears likely to prevail most of the time in 
the textile industry, and our expectations are for profits of 
relatively modest amounts in relation to capital.

     We hope we don’t get into too many more businesses with such 
tough economic characteristics.  But, as we have stated before: 
(1) our textile businesses are very important employers in their 
communities, (2) management has been straightforward in reporting 
on problems and energetic in attacking them, (3) labor has been 
cooperative and understanding in facing our common problems, and 
(4) the business should average modest cash returns relative to 
investment.  As long as these conditions prevail - and we expect 
that they will - we intend to continue to support our textile 
business despite more attractive alternative uses for capital.
Insurance Underwriting
The number one contributor to Berkshire’s overall excellent 
results in 1978 was the segment of National Indemnity Company’s 
insurance operation run by Phil Liesche.  On about $90 million of 
earned premiums, an underwriting profit of approximately $11 
million was realized, a truly extraordinary achievement even 
against the background of excellent industry conditions.  Under 
Phil’s leadership, with outstanding assistance by Roland Miller 
in Underwriting and Bill Lyons in Claims, this segment of 
National Indemnity (including National Fire and Marine Insurance 
Company, which operates as a running mate) had one of its best 
years in a long history of performances which, in aggregate, far 
outshine those of the industry.  Present successes reflect credit 
not only upon present managers, but equally upon the business 
talents of Jack Ringwalt, founder of National Indemnity, whose 
operating philosophy remains etched upon the company.

     Home and Automobile Insurance Company had its best year 
since John Seward stepped in and straightened things out in 1975.  
Its results are combined in this report with those of Phil 
Liesche’s operation under the insurance category entitled 
“Specialized Auto and General Liability”.

     Worker’s Compensation was a mixed bag in 1978.  In its first 
year as a subsidiary, Cypress Insurance Company, managed by Milt 
Thornton, turned in outstanding results.  The worker’s 
compensation line can cause large underwriting losses when rapid 
inflation interacts with changing social concepts, but Milt has a 
cautious and highly professional staff to cope with these 
problems.  His performance in 1978 has reinforced our very good 
feelings about this purchase.

     Frank DeNardo came with us in the spring of 1978 to 
straighten out National Indemnity’s California Worker’s 
Compensation business which, up to that point, had been a 
disaster.  Frank has the experience and intellect needed to 
correct the major problems of the Los Angeles office.  Our volume 
in this department now is running only about 25% of what it was 
eighteen months ago, and early indications are that Frank is 
making good progress.

     George Young’s reinsurance department continues to produce 
very large sums for investment relative to premium volume, and 
thus gives us reasonably satisfactory overall results.  However, 
underwriting results still are not what they should be and can 
be.  It is very easy to fool yourself regarding underwriting 
results in reinsurance (particularly in casualty lines involving 
long delays in settlement), and we believe this situation 
prevails with many of our competitors.  Unfortunately, self-
delusion in company reserving almost always leads to inadequate 
industry rate levels.  If major factors in the market don’t know 
their true costs, the competitive “fall-out” hits all - even 
those with adequate cost knowledge.  George is quite willing to 
reduce volume significantly, if needed, to achieve satisfactory 
underwriting, and we have a great deal of confidence in the long 
term soundness of this business under his direction.

     The homestate operation was disappointing in 1978.  Our 
unsatisfactory underwriting, even though partially explained by 
an unusual incidence of Midwestern storms, is particularly 
worrisome against the backdrop of very favorable industry results 
in the conventional lines written by our homestate group.  We 
have confidence in John Ringwalt’s ability to correct this 
situation.  The bright spot in the group was the performance of 
Kansas Fire and Casualty in its first full year of business.  
Under Floyd Taylor, this subsidiary got off to a truly remarkable 
start.  Of course, it takes at least several years to evaluate 
underwriting results, but the early signs are encouraging and 
Floyd’s operation achieved the best loss ratio among the 
homestate companies in 1978.

     Although some segments were disappointing, overall our 
insurance operation had an excellent year.  But of course we 
should expect a good year when the industry is flying high, as in 
1978.  It is a virtual certainty that in 1979 the combined ratio 
(see definition on page 31) for the industry will move up at 
least a few points, perhaps enough to throw the industry as a 
whole into an underwriting loss position.  For example, in the 
auto lines - by far the most important area for the industry and 
for us - CPI figures indicate rates overall were only 3% higher 
in January 1979 than a year ago.  But the items that make up loss 
costs - auto repair and medical care costs - were up over 9%.  
How different than yearend 1976 when rates had advanced over 22% 
in the preceding twelve months, but costs were up 8%.

     Margins will remain steady only if rates rise as fast as 
costs.  This assuredly will not be the case in 1979, and 
conditions probably will worsen in 1980.  Our present thinking is 
that our underwriting performance relative to the industry will 
improve somewhat in 1979, but every other insurance management 
probably views its relative prospects with similar optimism - 
someone is going to be disappointed.  Even if we do improve 
relative to others, we may well have a higher combined ratio and 
lower underwriting profits in 1979 than we achieved last year.

     We continue to look for ways to expand our insurance 
operation.  But your reaction to this intent should not be 
unrestrained joy.  Some of our expansion efforts - largely 
initiated by your Chairman have been lackluster, others have been 
expensive failures.  We entered the business in 1967 through 
purchase of the segment which Phil Liesche now manages, and it 
still remains, by a large margin, the best portion of our 
insurance business.  It is not easy to buy a good insurance 
business, but our experience has been that it is easier to buy 
one than create one.  However, we will continue to try both 
approaches, since the rewards for success in this field can be 
exceptional.
Insurance Investments
We confess considerable optimism regarding our insurance 
equity investments.  Of course, our enthusiasm for stocks is not 
unconditional.  Under some circumstances, common stock 
investments by insurers make very little sense.

     We get excited enough to commit a big percentage of 
insurance company net worth to equities only when we find (1) 
businesses we can understand, (2) with favorable long-term 
prospects, (3) operated by honest and competent people, and (4) 
priced very attractively.  We usually can identify a small number 
of potential investments meeting requirements (1), (2) and (3), 
but (4) often prevents action.  For example, in 1971 our total 
common stock position at Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries 
amounted to only $10.7 million at cost, and $11.7 million at 
market.  There were equities of identifiably excellent companies 
available - but very few at interesting prices. (An irresistible 
footnote: in 1971, pension fund managers invested a record 122% 
of net funds available in equities - at full prices they couldn’t 
buy enough of them.  In 1974, after the bottom had fallen out, 
they committed a then record low of 21% to stocks.)

     The past few years have been a different story for us.  At 
the end of 1975 our insurance subsidiaries held common equities 
with a market value exactly equal to cost of $39.3 million.  At 
the end of 1978 this position had been increased to equities 
(including a convertible preferred) with a cost of $129.1 million 
and a market value of $216.5 million.  During the intervening 
three years we also had realized pre-tax gains from common 
equities of approximately $24.7 million.  Therefore, our overall 
unrealized and realized pre-tax gains in equities for the three 
year period came to approximately $112 million.  During this same 
interval the Dow-Jones Industrial Average declined from 852 to 
805.  It was a marvelous period for the value-oriented equity 
buyer.

     We continue to find for our insurance portfolios small 
portions of really outstanding businesses that are available, 
through the auction pricing mechanism of security markets, at 
prices dramatically cheaper than the valuations inferior 
businesses command on negotiated sales.

     This program of acquisition of small fractions of businesses 
(common stocks) at bargain prices, for which little enthusiasm 
exists, contrasts sharply with general corporate acquisition 
activity, for which much enthusiasm exists.  It seems quite clear 