in most years that it causes the P/C industry as a whole to operate at a significant underwriting loss. This loss, in
effect, is what the industry pays to hold its float. For example, State Farm, by far the country’s largest insurer and a
well-managed company besides, incurred an underwriting loss in nine of the twelve years ending in 2012 (the latest
year for which their financials are available, as I write this). Competitive dynamics almost guarantee that the
insurance industry – despite the float income all companies enjoy – will continue its dismal record of earning
subnormal returns as compared to other businesses.
As noted in the first section of this report, we have now operated at an underwriting profit for eleven
consecutive years, our pre-tax gain for the period having totaled $22 billion. Looking ahead, I believe we will
continue to underwrite profitably in most years. Doing so is the daily focus of all of our insurance managers who
know that while float is valuable, it can be drowned by poor underwriting results.
So how does our float affect intrinsic value? When Berkshire’s book value is calculated, the full amount of
our float is deducted as a liability, just as if we had to pay it out tomorrow and could not replenish it. But to think of
float as strictly a liability is incorrect; it should instead be viewed as a revolving fund. Daily, we pay old claims –
some $17 billion to more than five million claimants in 2013 – and that reduces float. Just as surely, we each day
write new business and thereby generate new claims that add to float. If our revolving float is both costless and
long-enduring, which I believe it will be, the true value of this liability is dramatically less than the accounting
liability.
A counterpart to this overstated liability is $15.5 billion of “goodwill” that is attributable to our insurance
companies and included in book value as an asset. In very large part, this goodwill represents the price we paid for
the float-generating capabilities of our insurance operations. The cost of the goodwill, however, has no bearing on
its true value. For example, if an insurance business sustains large and prolonged underwriting losses, any goodwill
asset carried on the books should be deemed valueless, whatever its original cost.
Fortunately, that does not describe Berkshire. Charlie and I believe the true economic value of our
insurance goodwill – what we would happily pay to purchase an insurance operation possessing float of similar
quality to that we have – to be far in excess of its historic carrying value. The value of our float is one reason – a
huge reason – why we believe Berkshire’s intrinsic business value substantially exceeds its book value.
************
Berkshire’s attractive insurance economics exist only because we have some terrific managers running
disciplined operations that possess strong, hard-to-replicate business models. Let me tell you about the major units.
First by float size is the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, managed by Ajit Jain. Ajit insures risks
that no one else has the desire or the capital to take on. His operation combines capacity, speed, decisiveness and,
most important, brains in a manner unique in the insurance business. Yet he never exposes Berkshire to risks that
are inappropriate in relation to our resources. Indeed, we are far more conservative in avoiding risk than most large
insurers. For example, if the insurance industry should experience a $250 billion loss from some megacatastrophe – a loss about triple anything it has ever experienced – Berkshire as a whole would likely record a
significant profit for the year because of its many streams of earnings. And we would remain awash in cash,
looking for large opportunities if the catastrophe caused markets to go into shock. All other major insurers and
reinsurers would meanwhile be far in the red, with some facing insolvency.
From a standing start in 1985, Ajit has created an insurance business with float of $37 billion and a large
cumulative underwriting profit, a feat no other insurance CEO has come close to matching. Ajit’s mind is an idea
factory that is always looking for more lines of business he can add to his current assortment.

8

One venture materialized last June when he formed Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (“BHSI”).
This initiative took us into commercial insurance, where we were instantly accepted by both major insurance
brokers and corporate risk managers throughout America. These professionals recognize that no other insurer can
match the financial strength of Berkshire, which guarantees that legitimate claims arising many years in the future
will be paid promptly and fully.
BHSI is led by Peter Eastwood, an experienced underwriter who is widely respected in the insurance
world. Peter has assembled a spectacular team that is already writing a substantial amount of business with many
Fortune 500 companies and with smaller operations as well. BHSI will be a major asset for Berkshire, one that will
generate volume in the billions within a few years. Give Peter a Berkshire greeting when you see him at the annual
meeting.
************
We have another reinsurance powerhouse in General Re, managed by Tad Montross.
At bottom, a sound insurance operation needs to adhere to four disciplines. It must (1) understand all
exposures that might cause a policy to incur losses; (2) conservatively assess the likelihood of any exposure
actually causing a loss and the probable cost if it does; (3) set a premium that, on average, will deliver a profit after
both prospective loss costs and operating expenses are covered; and (4) be willing to walk away if the appropriate
premium can’t be obtained.
Many insurers pass the first three tests and flunk the fourth. They simply can’t turn their back on business
that is being eagerly written by their competitors. That old line, “The other guy is doing it, so we must as well,”
spells trouble in any business, but in none more so than insurance.
Tad has observed all four of the insurance commandments, and it shows in his results. General Re’s huge
float has been better than cost-free under his leadership, and we expect that, on average, to continue. We are
particularly enthusiastic about General Re’s international life reinsurance business, which has grown consistently
and profitably since we acquired the company in 1998.
It can be remembered that soon after we purchased General Re, the company was beset by problems that
caused commentators – and me as well, briefly – to believe I had made a huge mistake. That day is long gone.
General Re is now a gem.
************
Finally, there is GEICO, the insurer on which I cut my teeth 63 years ago. GEICO is managed by Tony
Nicely, who joined the company at 18 and completed 52 years of service in 2013. Tony became CEO in 1993, and
since then the company has been flying.
When I was first introduced to GEICO in January 1951, I was blown away by the huge cost advantage the
company enjoyed compared to the expenses borne by the giants of the industry. That operational efficiency continues
today and is an all-important asset. No one likes to buy auto insurance. But almost everyone likes to drive. The
insurance needed is a major expenditure for most families. Savings matter to them – and only a low-cost operation can
deliver these.
GEICO’s cost advantage is the factor that has enabled the company to gobble up market share year after
year. Its low costs create a moat – an enduring one – that competitors are unable to cross. Meanwhile, our little
gecko continues to tell Americans how GEICO can save them important money. With our latest reduction in
operating costs, his story has become even more compelling.

9

In 1995, we purchased the half of GEICO that we didn’t already own, paying $1.4 billion more than the net
tangible assets we acquired. That’s “goodwill,” and it will forever remain unchanged on our books. As GEICO’s
business grows, however, so does its true economic goodwill. I believe that figure to be approaching $20 billion.
************
In addition to our three major insurance operations, we own a group of smaller companies, most of them
plying their trade in odd corners of the insurance world. In aggregate, these companies are a growing operation that
consistently delivers an underwriting profit. Moreover, as the table below shows, they also provide us with
substantial float. Charlie and I treasure these companies and their managers.

Insurance Operations

Underwriting Profit
Yearend Float
(in millions)
2013
2012
2013
2012

BH Reinsurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
GEICO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Primary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .