Income from both the farm and the NYU real estate will probably increase in the decades to come. Though
the gains won’t be dramatic, the two investments will be solid and satisfactory holdings for my lifetime and,
subsequently, for my children and grandchildren.
I tell these tales to illustrate certain fundamentals of investing:
Š

You don’t need to be an expert in order to achieve satisfactory investment returns. But if you aren’t, you
must recognize your limitations and follow a course certain to work reasonably well. Keep things simple
and don’t swing for the fences. When promised quick profits, respond with a quick “no.”

Š

Focus on the future productivity of the asset you are considering. If you don’t feel comfortable making a rough
estimate of the asset’s future earnings, just forget it and move on. No one has the ability to evaluate every
investment possibility. But omniscience isn’t necessary; you only need to understand the actions you undertake.

Š

If you instead focus on the prospective price change of a contemplated purchase, you are speculating.
There is nothing improper about that. I know, however, that I am unable to speculate successfully, and I
am skeptical of those who claim sustained success at doing so. Half of all coin-flippers will win their first
toss; none of those winners has an expectation of profit if he continues to play the game. And the fact that
a given asset has appreciated in the recent past is never a reason to buy it.

Š

With my two small investments, I thought only of what the properties would produce and cared not at all
about their daily valuations. Games are won by players who focus on the playing field – not by those
whose eyes are glued to the scoreboard. If you can enjoy Saturdays and Sundays without looking at stock
prices, give it a try on weekdays.

Š

Forming macro opinions or listening to the macro or market predictions of others is a waste of time.
Indeed, it is dangerous because it may blur your vision of the facts that are truly important. (When I hear
TV commentators glibly opine on what the market will do next, I am reminded of Mickey Mantle’s
scathing comment: “You don’t know how easy this game is until you get into that broadcasting booth.”)

18

Š

My two purchases were made in 1986 and 1993. What the economy, interest rates, or the stock market
might do in the years immediately following – 1987 and 1994 – was of no importance to me in making
those investments. I can’t remember what the headlines or pundits were saying at the time. Whatever the
chatter, corn would keep growing in Nebraska and students would flock to NYU.

There is one major difference between my two small investments and an investment in stocks. Stocks
provide you minute-to-minute valuations for your holdings whereas I have yet to see a quotation for either my farm
or the New York real estate.
It should be an enormous advantage for investors in stocks to have those wildly fluctuating valuations
placed on their holdings – and for some investors, it is. After all, if a moody fellow with a farm bordering my
property yelled out a price every day to me at which he would either buy my farm or sell me his – and those prices
varied widely over short periods of time depending on his mental state – how in the world could I be other than
benefited by his erratic behavior? If his daily shout-out was ridiculously low, and I had some spare cash, I would
buy his farm. If the number he yelled was absurdly high, I could either sell to him or just go on farming.
Owners of stocks, however, too often let the capricious and often irrational behavior of their fellow owners
cause them to behave irrationally as well. Because there is so much chatter about markets, the economy, interest
rates, price behavior of stocks, etc., some investors believe it is important to listen to pundits – and, worse yet,
important to consider acting upon their comments.
Those people who can sit quietly for decades when they own a farm or apartment house too often become
frenetic when they are exposed to a stream of stock quotations and accompanying commentators delivering an
implied message of “Don’t just sit there, do something.” For these investors, liquidity is transformed from the
unqualified benefit it should be to a curse.
A “flash crash” or some other extreme market fluctuation can’t hurt an investor any more than an erratic
and mouthy neighbor can hurt my farm investment. Indeed, tumbling markets can be helpful to the true investor if
he has cash available when prices get far out of line with values. A climate of fear is your friend when investing; a
euphoric world is your enemy.
During the extraordinary financial panic that occurred late in 2008, I never gave a thought to selling my
farm or New York real estate, even though a severe recession was clearly brewing. And, if I had owned 100% of a
solid business with good long-term prospects, it would have been foolish for me to even consider dumping it. So
why would I have sold my stocks that were small participations in wonderful businesses? True, any one of them
might eventually disappoint, but as a group they were certain to do well. Could anyone really believe the earth was
going to swallow up the incredible productive assets and unlimited human ingenuity existing in America?
************
When Charlie and I buy stocks – which we think of as small portions of businesses – our analysis is very
similar to that which we use in buying entire businesses. We first have to decide whether we can sensibly estimate
an earnings range for five years out, or more. If the answer is yes, we will buy the stock (or business) if it sells at a
reasonable price in relation to the bottom boundary of our estimate. If, however, we lack the ability to estimate
future earnings – which is usually the case – we simply move on to other prospects. In the 54 years we have worked
together, we have never foregone an attractive purchase because of the macro or political environment, or the views
of other people. In fact, these subjects never come up when we make decisions.
It’s vital, however, that we recognize the perimeter of our “circle of competence” and stay well inside of
it. Even then, we will make some mistakes, both with stocks and businesses. But they will not be the disasters that
occur, for example, when a long-rising market induces purchases that are based on anticipated price behavior and a
desire to be where the action is.

19

Most investors, of course, have not made the study of business prospects a priority in their lives. If wise,
they will conclude that they do not know enough about specific businesses to predict their future earning power.
I have good news for these non-professionals: The typical investor doesn’t need this skill. In aggregate,
American business has done wonderfully over time and will continue to do so (though, most assuredly, in
unpredictable fits and starts). In the 20th Century, the Dow Jones Industrials index advanced from 66 to 11,497,
paying a rising stream of dividends to boot. The 21st Century will witness further gains, almost certain to be
substantial. The goal of the non-professional should not be to pick winners – neither he nor his “helpers” can do
that – but should rather be to own a cross-section of businesses that in aggregate are bound to do well. A low-cost
S&P 500 index fund will achieve this goal.
That’s the “what” of investing for the non-professional. The “when” is also important. The main danger is
that the timid or beginning investor will enter the market at a time of extreme exuberance and then become
disillusioned when paper losses occur. (Remember the late Barton Biggs’ observation: “A bull market is like sex. It
feels best just before it ends.”) The antidote to that kind of mistiming is for an investor to accumulate shares over a
long period and never to sell when the news is bad and stocks are well off their highs. Following those rules, the
“know-nothing” investor who both diversifies and keeps his costs minimal is virtually certain to get satisfactory
results. Indeed, the unsophisticated investor who is realistic about his shortcomings is likely to obtain better longterm results than the knowledgeable professional who is blind to even a single weakness.
If “investors” frenetically bought and sold farmland to each other, neither the yields nor prices of their
crops would be increased. The only consequence of such behavior would be decreases in the overall earnings
realized by the farm-owning population because of the substantial costs it would incur as it sought advice and
switched properties.
Nevertheless, both individuals and institutions will constantly be urged to be active by those who profit