hope our taxes continue to rise in the future – it will mean we are prospering – but we also hope that the
rest of Corporate America antes up along with us. This might be a project for Ms. Olson to work on.
Corporate Governance
In judging whether Corporate America is serious about reforming itself, CEO pay remains the acid
test. To date, the results aren’t encouraging. A few CEOs, such as Jeff Immelt of General Electric, have
led the way in initiating programs that are fair to managers and shareholders alike. Generally, however, his
example has been more admired than followed.
It’s understandable how pay got out of hand. When management hires employees, or when
companies bargain with a vendor, the intensity of interest is equal on both sides of the table. One party’s
gain is the other party’s loss, and the money involved has real meaning to both. The result is an honest-toGod negotiation.
But when CEOs (or their representatives) have met with compensation committees, too often one
side – the CEO’s – has cared far more than the other about what bargain is struck. A CEO, for example,
will always regard the difference between receiving options for 100,000 shares or for 500,000 as
monumental. To a comp committee, however, the difference may seem unimportant – particularly if, as
7

has been the case at most companies, neither grant will have any effect on reported earnings. Under these
conditions, the negotiation often has a “play-money” quality.
Overreaching by CEOs greatly accelerated in the 1990s as compensation packages gained by the
most avaricious– a title for which there was vigorous competition – were promptly replicated elsewhere.
The couriers for this epidemic of greed were usually consultants and human relations departments, which
had no trouble perceiving who buttered their bread. As one compensation consultant commented: “There
are two classes of clients you don’t want to offend – actual and potential.”
In proposals for reforming this malfunctioning system, the cry has been for “independent”
directors. But the question of what truly motivates independence has largely been neglected.
In last year’s report, I took a look at how “independent” directors – as defined by statute – had
performed in the mutual fund field. The Investment Company Act of 1940 mandated such directors, and
that means we’ve had an extended test of what statutory standards produce. In our examination last year,
we looked at the record of fund directors in respect to the two key tasks board members should perform –
whether at a mutual fund business or any other. These two all-important functions are, first, to obtain (or
retain) an able and honest manager and then to compensate that manager fairly.
Our survey was not encouraging. Year after year, at literally thousands of funds, directors had
routinely rehired the incumbent management company, however pathetic its performance had been. Just as
routinely, the directors had mindlessly approved fees that in many cases far exceeded those that could have
been negotiated. Then, when a management company was sold – invariably at a huge price relative to
tangible assets – the directors experienced a “counter-revelation” and immediately signed on with the new
manager and accepted its fee schedule. In effect, the directors decided that whoever would pay the most
for the old management company was the party that should manage the shareholders’ money in the future.
Despite the lapdog behavior of independent fund directors, we did not conclude that they are bad
people. They’re not. But sadly, “boardroom atmosphere” almost invariably sedates their fiduciary genes.
On May 22, 2003, not long after Berkshire’s report appeared, the Chairman of the Investment
Company Institute addressed its membership about “The State of our Industry.” Responding to those who
have “weighed in about our perceived failings,” he mused, “It makes me wonder what life would be like if
we’d actually done something wrong.”
Be careful what you wish for.
Within a few months, the world began to learn that many fund-management companies had
followed policies that hurt the owners of the funds they managed, while simultaneously boosting the fees of
the managers. Prior to their transgressions, it should be noted, these management companies were earning
profit margins and returns on tangible equity that were the envy of Corporate America. Yet to swell profits
further, they trampled on the interests of fund shareholders in an appalling manner.
So what are the directors of these looted funds doing? As I write this, I have seen none that have
terminated the contract of the offending management company (though naturally that entity has often fired
some of its employees). Can you imagine directors who had been personally defrauded taking such a boyswill-be-boys attitude?
To top it all off, at least one miscreant management company has put itself up for sale,
undoubtedly hoping to receive a huge sum for “delivering” the mutual funds it has managed to the highest
bidder among other managers. This is a travesty. Why in the world don’t the directors of those funds
simply select whomever they think is best among the bidding organizations and sign up with that party
directly? The winner would consequently be spared a huge “payoff” to the former manager who, having
flouted the principles of stewardship, deserves not a dime. Not having to bear that acquisition cost, the
winner could surely manage the funds in question for a far lower ongoing fee than would otherwise have
been the case. Any truly independent director should insist on this approach to obtaining a new manager.

8

The reality is that neither the decades-old rules regulating investment company directors nor the
new rules bearing down on Corporate America foster the election of truly independent directors. In both
instances, an individual who is receiving 100% of his income from director fees – and who may wish to
enhance his income through election to other boards – is deemed independent. That is nonsense. The same
rules say that Berkshire director and lawyer Ron Olson, who receives from us perhaps 3% of his very large
income, does not qualify as independent because that 3% comes from legal fees Berkshire pays his firm
rather than from fees he earns as a Berkshire director. Rest assured, 3% from any source would not torpedo
Ron’s independence. But getting 20%, 30% or 50% of their income from director fees might well temper
the independence of many individuals, particularly if their overall income is not large. Indeed, I think it’s
clear that at mutual funds, it has.
***********
Let me make a small suggestion to “independent” mutual fund directors. Why not simply affirm
in each annual report that “(1) We have looked at other management companies and believe the one we
have retained for the upcoming year is among the better operations in the field; and (2) we have negotiated
a fee with our managers comparable to what other clients with equivalent funds would negotiate.”
It does not seem unreasonable for shareholders to expect fund directors – who are often receiving
fees that exceed $100,000 annually – to declare themselves on these points. Certainly these directors
would satisfy themselves on both matters were they handing over a large chunk of their own money to the
manager. If directors are unwilling to make these two declarations, shareholders should heed the maxim
“If you don’t know whose side someone is on, he’s probably not on yours.”
Finally, a disclaimer. A great many funds have been run well and conscientiously despite the
opportunities for malfeasance that exist. The shareholders of these funds have benefited, and their
managers have earned their pay. Indeed, if I were a director of certain funds, including some that charge
above-average fees, I would enthusiastically make the two declarations I have suggested. Additionally,
those index funds that are very low-cost (such as Vanguard’s) are investor-friendly by definition and are
the best selection for most of those who wish to own equities.
I am on my soapbox now only because the blatant wrongdoing that has occurred has betrayed the
trust of so many millions of shareholders. Hundreds of industry insiders had to know what was going on,
yet none publicly said a word. It took Eliot Spitzer, and the whistleblowers who aided him, to initiate a
housecleaning. We urge fund directors to continue the job. Like directors throughout Corporate America,
these fiduciaries must now decide whether their job is to work for owners or for managers.
Berkshire Governance
True independence – meaning the willingness to challenge a forceful CEO when something is
wrong or foolish – is an enormously valuable trait in a director. It is also rare. The place to look for it is
among high-grade people whose interests are in line with those of rank-and-file shareholders – and are in
line in a very big way.
We’ve made that search at Berkshire. We now have eleven directors and each of them, combined
with members of their families, owns more than $4 million of Berkshire stock. Moreover, all have held
major stakes in Berkshire for many years. In the case of six of the eleven, family ownership amounts to at