---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2001
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2001ar/2001ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 307 - 1320
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Berkshire’s loss in net worth during 2001 was $3.77 billion, which decreased the per-share book value of
both our Class A and Class B stock by 6.2%. Over the last 37 years (that is, since present management took over)
per-share book value has grown from $19 to $37,920, a rate of 22.6% compounded annually.∗
Per-share intrinsic grew somewhat faster than book value during these 37 years, and in 2001 it probably
decreased a bit less. We explain intrinsic value in our Owner’s Manual, which begins on page 62. I urge new
shareholders to read this manual to become familiar with Berkshire’s key economic principles.
Two years ago, reporting on 1999, I said that we had experienced both the worst absolute and relative
performance in our history. I added that “relative results are what concern us,” a viewpoint I’ve had since forming
my first investment partnership on May 5, 1956. Meeting with my seven founding limited partners that evening, I
gave them a short paper titled “The Ground Rules” that included this sentence: “Whether we do a good job or a
poor job is to be measured against the general experience in securities.” We initially used the Dow Jones Industrials
as our benchmark, but shifted to the S&P 500 when that index became widely used. Our comparative record since
1965 is chronicled on the facing page; last year Berkshire’s advantage was 5.7 percentage points.
Some people disagree with our focus on relative figures, arguing that “you can’t eat relative performance.”
But if you expect – as Charlie Munger, Berkshire’s Vice Chairman, and I do – that owning the S&P 500 will
produce reasonably satisfactory results over time, it follows that, for long-term investors, gaining small advantages
annually over that index must prove rewarding. Just as you can eat well throughout the year if you own a profitable,
but highly seasonal, business such as See’s (which loses considerable money during the summer months) so, too,
can you regularly feast on investment returns that beat the averages, however variable the absolute numbers may be.
Though our corporate performance last year was satisfactory, my performance was anything but. I manage
most of Berkshire’s equity portfolio, and my results were poor, just as they have been for several years. Of even
more importance, I allowed General Re to take on business without a safeguard I knew was important, and on
September 11th, this error caught up with us. I’ll tell you more about my mistake later and what we are doing to
correct it.
Another of my 1956 Ground Rules remains applicable: “I cannot promise results to partners.” But Charlie
and I can promise that your economic result from Berkshire will parallel ours during the period of your ownership:
We will not take cash compensation, restricted stock or option grants that would make our results superior to yours.
Additionally, I will keep well over 99% of my net worth in Berkshire. My wife and I have never sold a
share nor do we intend to. Charlie and I are disgusted by the situation, so common in the last few years, in which
shareholders have suffered billions in losses while the CEOs, promoters, and other higher-ups who fathered these
disasters have walked away with extraordinary wealth. Indeed, many of these people were urging investors to buy
shares while concurrently dumping their own, sometimes using methods that hid their actions. To their shame, these
business leaders view shareholders as patsies, not partners.
Though Enron has become the symbol for shareholder abuse, there is no shortage of egregious conduct
elsewhere in corporate America. One story I’ve heard illustrates the all-too-common attitude of managers toward
∗

All figures used in this report apply to Berkshire's A shares, the successor to the only stock that the
company had outstanding before 1996. The B shares have an ec onomic interest equal to 1/30th that of the A.

3

owners: A gorgeous woman slinks up to a CEO at a party and through moist lips purrs, “I’ll do anything – anything
– you want. Just tell me what you would like.” With no hesitation, he replies, “Reprice my options.”
One final thought about Berkshire: In the future we won’t come close to replicating our past record. To be
sure, Charlie and I will strive for above-average performance and will not be satisfied with less. But two conditions
at Berkshire are far different from what they once were: Then, we could often buy businesses and securities at much
lower valuations than now prevail; and more important, we were then working with far less money than we now
have. Some years back, a good $10 million idea could do wonders for us (witness our investment in Washington
Post in 1973 or GEICO in 1976). Today, the combination of ten such ideas and a triple in the value of each would
increase the net worth of Berkshire by only ¼ of 1%. We need “elephants” to make significant gains now – and
they are hard to find.
On the positive side, we have as fine an array of operating managers as exists at any company. (You can
read about many of them in a new book by Robert P. Miles: The Warren Buffett CEO.) In large part, moreover, they
are running businesses with economic characteristics ranging from good to superb. The ability, energy and loyalty
of these managers is simply extraordinary. We now have completed 37 Berkshire years without having a CEO of
an operating business elect to leave us to work elsewhere.
Our star-studded group grew in 2001. First, we completed the purchases of two businesses that we had
agreed to buy in 2000 – Shaw and Johns Manville. Then we acquired two others, MiTek and XTRA, and
contracted to buy two more: Larson-Juhl, an acquisition that has just closed, and Fruit of the Loom, which will close
shortly if creditors approve our offer. All of these businesses are led by smart, seasoned and trustworthy CEOs.
Additionally, all of our purchases last year were for cash, which means our shareholders became owners of
these additional businesses without relinquishing any interest in the fine companies they already owned. We will
continue to follow our familiar formula, striving to increase the value of the excellent businesses we have, adding
new businesses of similar quality, and issuing shares only grudgingly.
Acquisitions of 2001
A few days before last year’s annual meeting, I received a heavy package from St. Louis, containing an
unprepossessing chunk of metal whose function I couldn’t imagine. There was a letter in the package, though, from
Gene Toombs, CEO of a company called MiTek. He explained that MiTek is the world’s leading producer of this
thing I’d received, a “connector plate,” which is used in making roofing trusses. Gene also said that the U.K. parent
of MiTek wished to sell the company and that Berkshire seemed to him the ideal buyer. Liking the sound of his
letter, I gave Gene a call. It took me only a minute to realize that he was our kind of manager and MiTek our kind
of business. We made a cash offer to the U.K. owner and before long had a deal.
Gene’s managerial crew is exceptionally enthusiastic about the company and wanted to participate in the
purchase. Therefore, we arranged for 55 members of the MiTek team to buy 10% of the company, with each
putting up a minimum of $100,000 in cash. Many borrowed money so they could participate.
As they would not be if they had options, all of these managers are true owners. They face the downside of
decisions as well as the upside. They incur a cost of capital. And they can’t “reprice” their stakes: What they paid
is what they live with.
Charlie and I love the high-grade, truly entrepreneurial attitude that exists at MiTek, and we predict it will
be a winner for all involved.
************
In early 2000, my friend, Julian Robertson, announced that he would terminate his investment partnership,
Tiger Fund, and that he would liquidate it entirely except for four large holdings. One of these was XTRA, a
leading lessor of truck trailers. I then called Julian, asking whether he might consider selling his XTRA block or
whether, for that matter, the company’s management might entertain an offer for the entire company. Julian
referred me to Lew Rubin, XTRA’s CEO. He and I had a nice conversation, but it was apparent that no deal was to
be done.
Then in June 2001, Julian called to say that he had decided to sell his XTRA shares, and I resumed
conversations with Lew. The XTRA board accepted a proposal we made, which was to be effectuated through a
tender offer expiring on September 11th. The tender conditions included the usual “out,” allowing us to withdraw if

4

the stock market were to close before the offer’s expiration. Throughout much of the 11th, Lew went through a