injected into the company – and went to the Merchandise Mart on a buying expedition. There, she picked
up a dozen each of this and that, and then went home to set up operations in her basement.
Her plan was to conduct in-home presentations to small groups of women, gathered at the homes
of their friends. While driving to her first presentation, though, Doris almost talked herself into returning
home, convinced she was doomed to fail.
But the women she faced that evening loved her and her products, purchased $175 of goods, and
TPC was underway. Working with her husband, Jay, Doris did $50,000 of business in the first year.
Today – only 22 years later – TPC does more than $700 million of business annually, working through
67,000 kitchen consultants.
I’ve been to a TPC party, and it’s easy to see why the business is a success. The company’s
products, in large part proprietary, are well-styled and highly useful, and the consultants are knowledgeable
and enthusiastic. Everyone has a good time. Hurry to pamperedchef.com on the Internet to find where to
attend a party near you.
Two years ago, Doris brought in Sheila O’Connell Cooper, now CEO, to share the management
load, and in August they met with me in Omaha. It took me about ten seconds to decide that these were
two managers with whom I wished to partner, and we promptly made a deal. Berkshire shareholders
couldn’t be luckier than to be associated with Doris and Sheila.
************
Berkshire also made some important acquisitions last year through MidAmerican Energy Holdings
(MEHC), a company in which our equity interest is 80.2%. Because the Public Utility Holding Company
Act (PUHCA) limits us to 9.9% voting control, however, we are unable to fully consolidate MEHC’s
financial statements.
Despite the voting-control limitation – and the somewhat strange capital structure at MEHC it has
engendered – the company is a key part of Berkshire. Already it has $18 billion of assets and delivers our
largest stream of non-insurance earnings. It could well grow to be huge.

5

Last year MEHC acquired two important gas pipelines. The first, Kern River, extends from
Southwest Wyoming to Southern California. This line moves about 900 million cubic feet of gas a day and
is undergoing a $1.2 billion expansion that will double throughput by this fall. At that point, the line will
carry enough gas to generate electricity for ten million homes.
The second acquisition, Northern Natural Gas, is a 16,600 mile line extending from the Southwest
to a wide range of Midwestern locations. This purchase completes a corporate odyssey of particular
interest to Omahans.
From its beginnings in the 1930s, Northern Natural was one of Omaha’s premier businesses, run
by CEOs who regularly distinguished themselves as community leaders. Then, in July, 1985, the company
– which in 1980 had been renamed InterNorth – merged with Houston Natural Gas, a business less than
half its size. The companies announced that the enlarged operation would be headquartered in Omaha,
with InterNorth’s CEO continuing in that job.
Within a year, those promises were broken. By then, the former CEO of Houston Natural had
taken over the top job at InterNorth, the company had been renamed, and the headquarters had been moved
to Houston. These switches were orchestrated by the new CEO – Ken Lay – and the name he chose was
Enron.
Fast forward 15 years to late 2001. Enron ran into the troubles we’ve heard so much about and
borrowed money from Dynegy, putting up the Northern Natural pipeline operation as collateral. The two
companies quickly had a falling out, and the pipeline’s ownership moved to Dynegy. That company, in
turn, soon encountered severe financial problems of its own.
MEHC received a call on Friday, July 26, from Dynegy, which was looking for a quick and
certain cash sale of the pipeline. Dynegy phoned the right party: On July 29, we signed a contract, and
shortly thereafter Northern Natural returned home.
When 2001 began, Charlie and I had no idea that Berkshire would be moving into the pipeline
business. But upon completion of the Kern River expansion, MEHC will transport about 8% of all gas
used in the U.S. We continue to look for large energy-related assets, though in the electric utility field
PUHCA constrains what we can do.
************
A few years ago, and somewhat by accident, MEHC found itself in the residential real estate
brokerage business. It is no accident, however, that we have dramatically expanded the operation.
Moreover, we are likely to keep on expanding in the future.
We call this business HomeServices of America. In the various communities it serves, though, it
operates under the names of the businesses it has acquired, such as CBS in Omaha, Edina Realty in
Minneapolis and Iowa Realty in Des Moines. In most metropolitan areas in which we operate, we are the
clear market leader.
HomeServices is now the second largest residential brokerage business in the country. On one
side or the other (or both), we participated in $37 billion of transactions last year, up 100% from 2001.
Most of our growth came from three acquisitions we made during 2002, the largest of which was
Prudential California Realty. Last year, this company, the leading realtor in a territory consisting of Los
Angeles, Orange and San Diego Counties, participated in $16 billion of closings.
In a very short period, Ron Peltier, the company’s CEO, has increased HomeServices’ revenues –
and profits – dramatically. Though this business will always be cyclical, it’s one we like and in which we
continue to have an appetite for sensible acquisitions.
************
Dave Sokol, MEHC’s CEO, and Greg Abel, his key associate, are huge assets for Berkshire. They
are dealmakers, and they are managers. Berkshire stands ready to inject massive amounts of money into
MEHC – and it will be fun to watch how far Dave and Greg can take the business.

6

The Economics of Property/Casualty Insurance
Our core business — though we have others of great importance — is insurance. To understand
Berkshire, therefore, it is necessary that you understand how to evaluate an insurance company. The key
determinants are: (1) the amount of float that the business generates; (2) its cost; and (3) most critical of all,
the long-term outlook for both of these factors.
To begin with, float is money we hold but don't own. In an insurance operation, float arises
because premiums are received before losses are paid, an interval that sometimes extends over many years.
During that time, the insurer invests the money. This pleasant activity typically carries with it a downside:
The premiums that an insurer takes in usually do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually must pay.
That leaves it running an “underwriting loss,” which is the cost of float. An insurance business has value if
its cost of float over time is less than the cost the company would otherwise incur to obtain funds. But the
business is a lemon if its cost of float is higher than market rates for money. Moreover, the downward
trend of interest rates in recent years has transformed underwriting losses that formerly were tolerable into
burdens that move insurance businesses deeply into the lemon category.
Historically, Berkshire has obtained its float at a very low cost. Indeed, our cost has been less than
zero in many years; that is, we’ve actually been paid for holding other people’s money. In 2001, however,
our cost was terrible, coming in at 12.8%, about half of which was attributable to World Trade Center
losses. Back in 1983-84, we had years that were even worse. There’s nothing automatic about cheap float.
The table that follows shows (at intervals) the float generated by the various segments of
Berkshire’s insurance operations since we entered the business 36 years ago upon acquiring National
Indemnity Company (whose traditional lines are included in the segment “Other Primary”). For the table
we have calculated our float — which we generate in large amounts relative to our premium volume — by
adding net loss reserves, loss adjustment reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and unearned
premium reserves, and then subtracting insurance-related receivables, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid
taxes and deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance. (Got that?)

Yearend Float (in $ millions)
Year
1967
1977
1987
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002

GEICO

2,917
3,125
3,444
3,943
4,251
4,678

General Re

Other
Reinsurance

14,909
15,166
15,525
19,310
22,207

40
701
4,014
4,305
6,285
7,805
11,262
13,396

Other
Primary
20
131
807
455
415
403
598
685
943

Total
20
171
1,508
7,386
22,754
25,298
27,871
35,508
41,224

Last year our cost of float was 1%. As I mentioned earlier, you should temper your enthusiasm
about this favorable result given that no megacatastrophe occurred in 2002. We’re certain to get one of
these disasters periodically, and when we do our float-cost will spike.

7

Our 2002 results were hurt by 1) a painful charge at General Re for losses that should have been