In these transactions, two parties achieve their personal ends by 
exploitation of an innocent and unconsulted third party.  The 
players are: (1) the “shareholder” extortionist who, even before 
the ink on his stock certificate dries, delivers his “your-
money-or-your-life” message to managers; (2) the corporate 
insiders who quickly seek peace at any price - as long as the 
price is paid by someone else; and (3) the shareholders whose 
money is used by (2) to make (1) go away.  As the dust settles, 
the mugging, transient shareholder gives his speech on “free 
enterprise”, the muggee management gives its speech on “the best 
interests of the company”, and the innocent shareholder standing 
by mutely funds the payoff.)

     The companies in which we have our largest investments have 
all engaged in significant stock repurhases at times when wide 
discrepancies existed between price and value.  As shareholders, 
we find this encouraging and rewarding for two important reasons 
- one that is obvious, and one that is subtle and not always 
understood.  The obvious point involves basic arithmetic: major 
repurchases at prices well below per-share intrinsic business 
value immediately increase, in a highly significant way, that 
value.  When companies purchase their own stock, they often find 
it easy to get $2 of present value for $1.  Corporate acquisition 
programs almost never do as well and, in a discouragingly large 
number of cases, fail to get anything close to $1 of value for 
each $1 expended.

     The other benefit of repurchases is less subject to precise 
measurement but can be fully as important over time.  By making 
repurchases when a company’s market value is well below its 
business value, management clearly demonstrates that it is given 
to actions that enhance the wealth of shareholders, rather than 
to actions that expand management’s domain but that do nothing 
for (or even harm) shareholders.  Seeing this, shareholders and 
potential shareholders increase their estimates of future returns 
from the business.  This upward revision, in turn, produces 
market prices more in line with intrinsic business value.  These 
prices are entirely rational.  Investors should pay more for a 
business that is lodged in the hands of a manager with 
demonstrated pro-shareholder leanings than for one in the hands 
of a self-interested manager marching to a different drummer. (To 
make the point extreme, how much would you pay to be a minority 
shareholder of a company controlled by Robert Wesco?)

     The key word is “demonstrated”.  A manager who consistently 
turns his back on repurchases, when these clearly are in the 
interests of owners, reveals more than he knows of his 
motivations.  No matter how often or how eloquently he mouths 
some public relations-inspired phrase such as “maximizing 
shareholder wealth” (this season’s favorite), the market 
correctly discounts assets lodged with him.  His heart is not 
listening to his mouth - and, after a while, neither will the 
market.

     We have prospered in a very major way - as have other 
shareholders - by the large share repurchases of GEICO, 
Washington Post, and General Foods, our three largest holdings. 
(Exxon, in which we have our fourth largest holding, has also 
wisely and aggressively repurchased shares but, in this case, we 
have only recently established our position.) In each of these 
companies, shareholders have had their interests in outstanding 
businesses materially enhanced by repurchases made at bargain 
prices.  We feel very comfortable owning interests in businesses 
such as these that offer excellent economics combined with 
shareholder-conscious managements.

     The following table shows our 1984 yearend net holdings in 
marketable equities.  All numbers exclude the interests 
attributable to minority shareholders of Wesco and Nebraska 
Furniture Mart.
No. of Shares                                           Cost       Market
-------------                                        ----------  ----------
                                                         (000s omitted)
690,975    Affiliated Publications, Inc. .......  $  3,516    $  32,908
    740,400    American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.    44,416       46,738
  3,895,710    Exxon Corporation ...................   173,401      175,307
  4,047,191    General Foods Corporation ...........   149,870      226,137
  6,850,000    GEICO Corporation ...................    45,713      397,300
  2,379,200    Handy & Harman ......................    27,318       38,662
    818,872    Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.      2,570       28,149
    555,949    Northwest Industries                     26,581       27,242
  2,553,488    Time, Inc. ..........................    89,327      109,162
  1,868,600    The Washington Post Company .........    10,628      149,955
                                                     ----------  ----------
                                                      $573,340   $1,231,560
               All Other Common Stockholdings           11,634       37,326
                                                     ----------  ----------
               Total Common Stocks                    $584,974   $1,268,886
                                                     ==========  ==========

     It’s been over ten years since it has been as difficult as 
now to find equity investments that meet both our qualitative 
standards and our quantitative standards of value versus price.  
We try to avoid compromise of these standards, although we find 
doing nothing the most difficult task of all. (One English 
statesman attributed his country’s greatness in the nineteenth 
century to a policy of “masterly inactivity”.  This is a strategy 
that is far easier for historians to commend than for 
participants to follow.)

     In addition to the figures supplied at the beginning of this 
section, information regarding the businesses we own appears in 
Management’s Discussion on pages 42-47.  An amplified discussion 
of Wesco’s businesses appears in Charlie Munger’s report on pages 
50-59.  You will find particularly interesting his comments about 
conditions in the thrift industry.  Our other major controlled 
businesses are Nebraska Furniture Mart, See’s, Buffalo Evening 
News, and the Insurance Group, to which we will give some special 
attention here.
Nebraska Furniture Mart
Last year I introduced you to Mrs. B (Rose Blumkin) and her 
family.  I told you they were terrific, and I understated the 
case.  After another year of observing their remarkable talents 
and character, I can honestly say that I never have seen a 
managerial group that either functions or behaves better than the 
Blumkin family.

     Mrs. B, Chairman of the Board, is now 91, and recently was 
quoted in the local newspaper as saying, “I come home to eat and 
sleep, and that’s about it.  I can’t wait until it gets daylight 
so I can get back to the business”.  Mrs. B is at the store seven 
days a week, from opening to close, and probably makes more 
decisions in a day than most CEOs do in a year (better ones, 
too).

     In May Mrs. B was granted an Honorary Doctorate in 
Commercial Science by New York University. (She’s a “fast track” 
student: not one day in her life was spent in a school room prior 
to her receipt of the doctorate.) Previous recipients of honorary 
degrees in business from NYU include Clifton Garvin, Jr., CEO of 
Exxon Corp.; Walter Wriston, then CEO of Citicorp; Frank Cary, 
then CEO of IBM; Tom Murphy, then CEO of General Motors; and, 
most recently, Paul Volcker. (They are in good company.)

     The Blumkin blood did not run thin.  Louie, Mrs. B’s son, 
and his three boys, Ron, Irv, and Steve, all contribute in full 
measure to NFM’s amazing success.  The younger generation has 
attended the best business school of them all - that conducted by 
Mrs. B and Louie - and their training is evident in their 
performance.

     Last year NFM’s net sales increased by $14.3 million, 
bringing the total to $115 million, all from the one store in 
Omaha.  That is by far the largest volume produced by a single 
home furnishings store in the United States.  In fact, the gain 
in sales last year was itself greater than the annual volume of 
many good-sized successful stores.  The business achieves this 
success because it deserves this success.  A few figures will 
tell you why.

     In its fiscal 1984 10-K, the largest independent specialty 
retailer of home furnishings in the country, Levitz Furniture, 
described its prices as “generally lower than the prices charged 
by conventional furniture stores in its trading area”.  Levitz, 
in that year, operated at a gross margin of 44.4% (that is, on 
average, customers paid it $100 for merchandise that had cost it 
$55.60 to buy).  The gross margin at NFM is not much more than 
half of that.  NFM’s low mark-ups are possible because of its 
exceptional efficiency: operating expenses (payroll, occupancy, 
advertising, etc.) are about 16.5% of sales versus 35.6% at 
Levitz.

     None of this is in criticism of Levitz, which has a well-
managed operation.  But the NFM operation is simply extraordinary 
(and, remember, it all comes from a $500 investment by Mrs. B in 
1937).  By unparalleled efficiency and astute volume purchasing, 
NFM is able to earn excellent returns on capital while saving its 
customers at least $30 million annually from what, on average, it 
would cost them to buy the same merchandise at stores maintaining 
typical mark-ups.  Such savings enable NFM to constantly widen 
its geographical reach and thus to enjoy growth well beyond the 
natural growth of the Omaha market.

     I have been asked by a number of people just what secrets 
the Blumkins bring to their business.  These are not very 
esoteric.  All members of the family: (1) apply themselves with 
an enthusiasm and energy that would make Ben Franklin and Horatio 
Alger look like dropouts; (2) define with extraordinary realism 
their area of special competence and act decisively on all 
matters within it; (3) ignore even the most enticing propositions 
failing outside of that area of special competence; and, (4) 