that caused the vast damage in the Carolinas to occur slightly 
more than 72 hours after the equally severe damage in the 
Caribbean. Second, the California earthquake hit within weeks, 
causing insured damage that was difficult to estimate, even well 
after the event. Slammed by these two - or possibly three - major 
catastrophes, some primary insurers, and also many reinsurers 
that had themselves bought CAT protection, either used up their 
automatic second cover or became uncertain as to whether they had 
done so.

     At that point sellers of CAT policies had lost a huge amount 
of money - perhaps twice because of the reinstatements - and not 
taken in much in premiums. Depending upon many  variables, a CAT 
premium  might generally have run 3% to 15% of the amount of 
protection purchased. For some years, we've thought premiums of 
that kind inadequate and have stayed away from the business.

     But because the 1989 disasters left many insurers either 
actually or possibly bare, and also left most CAT writers licking 
their wounds, there was an immediate shortage after the 
earthquake of much-needed catastrophe coverage. Prices instantly 
became attractive, particularly for the reinsurance that CAT 
writers themselves buy. Just as instantly, Berkshire Hathaway 
offered to write up to $250 million of catastrophe coverage, 
advertising that proposition in trade publications. Though we did 
not write all the business we sought, we did in a busy ten days 
book a substantial amount.

     Our willingness to put such a huge sum on the line for a 
loss that could occur tomorrow sets us apart from any reinsurer 
in the world. There are, of course, companies that sometimes 
write $250 million or even far more of catastrophe coverage. But 
they do so only when they can, in turn, reinsure a large 
percentage of the business with other companies. When they can't 
"lay off" in size, they disappear from the market.

     Berkshire's policy, conversely, is to retain the business we 
write rather than lay it off. When rates carry an expectation of 
profit, we want to assume as much risk as is prudent. And in our 
case, that's a lot.

     We will accept more reinsurance risk for our own account 
than any other company because of two factors: (1) by the 
standards of regulatory accounting, we have a net worth in our 
insurance companies of about $6 billion - the second highest 
amount in the United States; and (2) we simply don't care what 
earnings we report quarterly, or even annually, just as long as 
the decisions leading to those earnings (or losses) were reached 
intelligently.

     Obviously, if we write $250 million of catastrophe coverage 
and retain it all ourselves, there is some probability that we 
will lose the full $250 million in a single quarter. That 
probability is low, but it is not zero. If we had a loss of that 
magnitude, our after-tax cost would be about $165 million. Though 
that is far more than Berkshire normally earns in a quarter, the 
damage would be a blow only to our pride, not to our well-being.

     This posture is one few insurance managements will assume. 
Typically, they are willing to write scads of business on terms 
that almost guarantee them mediocre returns on equity. But they 
do not want to expose themselves to an embarrassing single-
quarter loss, even if the managerial strategy that causes the 
loss promises, over time, to produce superior results. I can 
understand their thinking: What is best for their owners is not 
necessarily best for the managers. Fortunately Charlie and I have 
both total job security and financial interests that are 
identical with those of our shareholders. We are willing to
look
foolish as long as we don't feel we have
acted
foolishly. 

     Our method of operation, incidentally, makes us a 
stabilizing force in the industry. We add huge capacity when 
capacity is short and we become less competitive only when 
capacity is abundant. Of course, we don't follow this policy in 
the interest of stabilization - we follow it because we believe 
it to be the most sensible and profitable course of action. 
Nevertheless, our behavior steadies the  market. In  this case, 
Adam  Smith's  invisible  hand works as advertised.

     Currently, we hold an exceptional amount of float compared 
to premium volume. This circumstance should produce quite 
favorable insurance results for us during the next few years as 
it did in 1989. Our underwriting losses should be tolerable and 
our investment income from policyholder funds large. This 
pleasant situation, however, will gradually deteriorate as our 
float runs off.

     At some point, however, there will be an opportunity for us 
to write large amounts of profitable business. Mike Goldberg and 
his management team of Rod Eldred, Dinos Iordanou, Ajit Jain, 
Phil Urban, and Don Wurster continue to position us well for this 
eventuality.
Marketable Securities
In selecting marketable securities for our insurance 
companies, we generally choose among five major categories: (1) 
long-term common stock investments, (2) medium-term fixed income 
securities, (3) long-term fixed income securities, (4) short-term 
cash equivalents, and (5) short-term arbitrage commitments.

     We have no particular bias when it comes to choosing from 
these categories; we just continuously search among them for the 
highest after-tax returns as measured by "mathematical 
expectation," limiting ourselves always to investment 
alternatives we think we understand. Our criteria have nothing to 
do with maximizing immediately reportable earnings; our goal, 
rather, is to maximize eventual net worth.
o
Below we list our common stock holdings having a value 
of over $100 million. A small portion of these investments belongs 
to subsidiaries of which Berkshire owns less than 100%.
12/31/89
  Shares    Company                                      Cost       Market
  ------    -------                                   ----------  ----------
                                                          (000s omitted)
3,000,000  Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ................ $  517,500  $1,692,375
23,350,000  The Coca-Cola Co. .......................  1,023,920   1,803,787
 2,400,000  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. ........     71,729     161,100
 6,850,000  GEICO Corp. .............................     45,713   1,044,625
 1,727,765  The Washington Post Company .............      9,731     486,366

     This list of companies is the same as last year's and in 
only one case has the number of shares changed: Our holdings of 
Coca-Cola increased from 14,172,500 shares at the end of 1988 to 
23,350,000. 

     This Coca-Cola investment provides yet another example of 
the incredible speed with which your Chairman responds to 
investment opportunities, no matter how obscure or well-disguised 
they may be. I believe I had my first Coca-Cola in either 1935 or 
1936. Of a certainty, it was in 1936 that I started buying Cokes 
at the rate of six for 25 cents from Buffett & Son, the family 
grocery store, to sell around the neighborhood for 5 cents each. 
In this excursion into high-margin retailing, I duly observed 
the extraordinary consumer attractiveness and commercial 
possibilities of the product.

     I continued to note these qualities for the next 52 years as 
Coke blanketed the world. During this period, however, I 
carefully avoided buying even a single share, instead allocating 
major portions of my net worth to street railway companies, 
windmill manufacturers, anthracite producers, textile businesses, 
trading-stamp issuers, and the like. (If you think I'm making 
this up, I can supply the names.) Only in the summer of 1988 did 
my brain finally establish contact with my eyes.

     What I then perceived was both clear and fascinating. After 
drifting somewhat in the 1970's, Coca-Cola had in 1981 become a 
new company with the move of Roberto Goizueta to CEO. Roberto, 
along with Don Keough, once my across-the-street neighbor in 
Omaha, first rethought and focused the company's policies and 
then energetically carried them out. What was already the world's 
most ubiquitous product gained new momentum, with sales overseas 
virtually exploding.

     Through a truly rare blend of marketing and financial 
skills, Roberto has maximized both the growth of his product and 
the rewards that this growth brings to shareholders. Normally, 
the CEO of a consumer products company, drawing on his natural 
inclinations or experience, will cause either marketing or 
finance to dominate the business at the expense of the other 
discipline. With Roberto, the mesh of marketing and finance is 
perfect and the result is a shareholder's dream.

     Of course, we should have started buying Coke much earlier, 
soon after Roberto and Don began running things. In fact, if I 
had been thinking straight I would have persuaded my grandfather 
to sell the grocery store back in 1936 and put all of the 
proceeds into Coca-Cola stock. I've learned my lesson: My 
response time to the next glaringly attractive idea will be 
slashed to well under 50 years.

     As I mentioned earlier, the yearend prices of our major 
investees were much higher relative to their intrinsic values 
than theretofore. While those prices may not yet cause 
nosebleeds, they are clearly vulnerable to a general market 
decline. A drop in their prices would not disturb us at all - it 
might in fact work to our eventual benefit - but it
would
cause 
at least a one-year reduction in Berkshire's net worth. We think 
such a reduction is almost certain in at least one of the next 
three years. Indeed, it would take only about a 10% year-to-year 