---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2000
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2000ar/2000ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 297 - 1411
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

Our gain in net worth during 2000 was $3.96 billion, which increased the per-share book value of both
our Class A and Class B stock by 6.5%. Over the last 36 years (that is, since present management took over) pershare book value has grown from $19 to $40,442, a gain of 23.6% compounded annually.∗
Overall, we had a decent year, our book-value gain having outpaced the performance of the S&P 500.
And, though this judgment is necessarily subjective, we believe Berkshire’s gain in per-share intrinsic value
moderately exceeded its gain in book value. (Intrinsic value, as well as other key investment and accounting terms
and concepts, are explained in our Owner’s Manual on pages 59-66. Intrinsic value is discussed on page 64.)
Furthermore, we completed two significant acquisitions that we negotiated in 1999 and initiated six more.
All told, these purchases have cost us about $8 billion, with 97% of that amount paid in cash and 3% in stock. The
eight businesses we’ve acquired have aggregate sales of about $13 billion and employ 58,000 people. Still, we
incurred no debt in making these purchases, and our shares outstanding have increased only 1/3 of 1%. Better yet,
we remain awash in liquid assets and are both eager and ready for even larger acquisitions.
I will detail our purchases in the next section of the report. But I will tell you now that we have embraced
the 21st century by entering such cutting-edge industries as brick, carpet, insulation and paint. Try to control your
excitement.
On the minus side, policyholder growth at GEICO slowed to a halt as the year progressed. It has become
much more expensive to obtain new business. I told you last year that we would get our money’s worth from
stepped-up advertising at GEICO in 2000, but I was wrong. We’ll examine the reasons later in the report.
Another negative — which has persisted for several years — is that we see our equity portfolio as only
mildly attractive. We own stocks of some excellent businesses, but most of our holdings are fully priced and are
unlikely to deliver more than moderate returns in the future. We’re not alone in facing this problem: The longterm prospect for equities in general is far from exciting.
Finally, there is the negative that recurs annually: Charlie Munger, Berkshire’s Vice Chairman and my
partner, and I are a year older than when we last reported to you. Mitigating this adverse development is the
indisputable fact that the age of your top managers is increasing at a considerably lower rate — percentage-wise —
than is the case at almost all other major corporations. Better yet, this differential will widen in the future.
Charlie and I continue to aim at increasing Berkshire’s per-share value at a rate that, over time, will
modestly exceed the gain from owning the S&P 500. As the table on the facing page shows, a small annual
advantage in our favor can, if sustained, produce an anything-but-small long-term advantage. To reach our goal
we will need to add a few good businesses to Berkshire’s stable each year, have the businesses we own generally
gain in value, and avoid any material increase in our outstanding shares. We are confident about meeting the last
two objectives; the first will require some luck.
It’s appropriate here to thank two groups that made my job both easy and fun last year  just as they do
every year. First, our operating managers continue to run their businesses in splendid fashion, which allows me to
spend my time allocating capital rather than supervising them. (I wouldn’t be good at that anyway.)

∗

All figures used in this report apply to Berkshire's A shares, the successor to the only stock that the
company had outstanding before 1996. The B shares have an economic interest equal to 1/30th that of the A.

3

Our managers are a very special breed. At most large companies, the truly talented divisional managers
seldom have the job they really want. Instead they yearn to become CEOs, either at their present employer or
elsewhere. Indeed, if they stay put, they and their colleagues are likely to feel they have failed.
At Berkshire, our all-stars have exactly the jobs they want, ones that they hope and expect to keep
throughout their business lifetimes. They therefore concentrate solely on maximizing the long-term value of the
businesses that they “own” and love. If the businesses succeed, they have succeeded. And they stick with us: In
our last 36 years, Berkshire has never had a manager of a significant subsidiary voluntarily leave to join another
business.
The other group to which I owe enormous thanks is the home-office staff. After the eight acquisitions
more than doubled our worldwide workforce to about 112,000, Charlie and I went soft last year and added one
more person at headquarters. (Charlie, bless him, never lets me forget Ben Franklin’s advice: “A small leak can
sink a great ship.”) Now we have 13.8 people.
This tiny band works miracles. In 2000 it handled all of the details connected with our eight acquisitions,
processed extensive regulatory and tax filings (our tax return covers 4,896 pages), smoothly produced an annual
meeting to which 25,000 tickets were issued, and accurately dispensed checks to 3,660 charities designated by our
shareholders. In addition, the group dealt with all the routine tasks served up by a company with a revenue runrate of $40 billion and more than 300,000 owners. And, to add to all of this, the other 12.8 are a delight to be
around.
I should pay to have my job.
Acquisitions of 2000
Our acquisition technique at Berkshire is simplicity itself: We answer the phone. I’m also glad to report
that it rings a bit more often now, because owners and/or managers increasingly wish to join their companies with
Berkshire. Our acquisition criteria are set forth on page 23, and the number to call is 402-346-1400.
Let me tell you a bit about the businesses we have purchased during the past 14 months, starting with the
two transactions that were initiated in 1999, but closed in 2000. (This list excludes some smaller purchases that
were made by the managers of our subsidiaries and that, in most cases, will be integrated into their operations.)
•

I described the first purchase — 76% of MidAmerican Energy — in last year’s report. Because
of regulatory constraints on our voting privileges, we perform only a “one-line” consolidation of
MidAmerican’s earnings and equity in our financial statements. If we instead fully consolidated
the company’s figures, our revenues in 2000 would have been $5 billion greater than we
reported, though net income would remain the same.

•

On November 23, 1999, I received a one-page fax from Bruce Cort that appended a Washington
Post article describing an aborted buyout of CORT Business Services. Despite his name, Bruce
has no connection with CORT. Rather, he is an airplane broker who had sold Berkshire a jet in
1986 and who, before the fax, had not been in touch with me for about ten years.
I knew nothing about CORT, but I immediately printed out its SEC filings and liked what I saw.
That same day I told Bruce I had a possible interest and asked him to arrange a meeting with
Paul Arnold, CORT’s CEO. Paul and I got together on November 29, and I knew at once that we
had the right ingredients for a purchase: a fine though unglamorous business, an outstanding
manager, and a price (going by that on the failed deal) that made sense.
Operating out of 117 showrooms, CORT is the national leader in “rent-to-rent” furniture,
primarily used in offices but also by temporary occupants of apartments. This business, it should
be noted, has no similarity to “rent-to-own” operations, which usually involve the sale of home
furnishings and electronics to people having limited income and poor credit.

4

We quickly purchased CORT for Wesco, our 80%-owned subsidiary, paying about $386 million
in cash. You will find more details about CORT’s operations in Wesco’s 1999 and 2000 annual
reports. Both Charlie and I enjoy working with Paul, and CORT looks like a good bet to beat our
original expectations.
•

Early last year, Ron Ferguson of General Re put me in contact with Bob Berry, whose family had
owned U.S. Liability for 49 years. This insurer, along with two sister companies, is a mediumsized, highly-respected writer of unusual risks — “excess and surplus lines” in insurance jargon.
After Bob and I got in touch, we agreed by phone on a half-stock, half-cash deal.
In recent years, Tom Nerney has managed the operation for the Berry family and has achieved a
rare combination of excellent growth and unusual profitability. Tom is a powerhouse in other
ways as well. In addition to having four adopted children (two from Russia), he has an extended