consequence, remote though it may be, we steer clear of planting its seeds. 
That is why we don't borrow big amounts and why we make sure that our 
super-cat business losses, large though the maximums may sound, will not 
put a major dent in Berkshire's intrinsic value.
Insurance - GEICO and Other Primary Operations
When we moved to total ownership of GEICO early last year, our 
expectations were high - and they are all being exceeded.  That is true 
from both a business and personal perspective:  GEICO's operating chief, 
Tony Nicely, is a superb business manager and a delight to work with.  
Under almost any conditions, GEICO would be an exceptionally valuable 
asset.  With Tony at the helm, it is reaching levels of performance that 
the organization would only a few years ago have thought impossible.

     There's nothing esoteric about GEICO's success:  The company's 
competitive strength flows directly from its position as a low-cost 
operator.  Low costs permit low prices, and low prices attract and retain 
good policyholders.  The final segment of a virtuous circle is drawn when 
policyholders recommend us to their friends.  GEICO gets more than one 
million referrals annually and these produce more than half of our new 
business,  an advantage that gives us enormous savings in acquisition 
expenses - and that makes our costs still lower.

     This formula worked in spades for GEICO in 1996:  Its voluntary auto 
policy count grew 10%.  During the previous 20 years, the company's best-
ever growth for a year had been 8%, a rate achieved only once.  Better yet, 
the growth in voluntary policies accelerated during the year, led by major 
gains in the nonstandard market, which has been an underdeveloped area at 
GEICO.  I focus here on voluntary policies because the involuntary business 
we get from assigned risk pools and the like is unprofitable.  Growth in 
that sector is most unwelcome.

     GEICO's growth would mean nothing if it did not produce reasonable 
underwriting profits.  Here, too, the news is good:  Last year we hit our 
underwriting targets and then some.  Our goal, however, is not to widen our 
profit margin but rather to enlarge the price advantage we offer customers. 
Given that strategy, we believe that 1997's growth will easily top that of 
last year.

     We expect new competitors to enter the direct-response market, and 
some of our existing competitors are likely to expand geographically.  
Nonetheless, the economies of scale we enjoy should allow us to maintain or 
even widen the protective moat surrounding our economic castle.  We do best 
on costs in geographical areas in which we enjoy high market penetration.  
As our policy count grows, concurrently delivering gains in penetration, we 
expect to drive costs materially lower.  GEICO's sustainable cost advantage 
is what attracted me to the company way back in 1951, when the entire 
business was valued at $7 million.  It is also why I felt Berkshire should 
pay $2.3 billion last year for the 49% of the company that we didn't then 
own.

     Maximizing the results of a wonderful business requires management and 
focus.  Lucky for us, we have in Tony a superb manager whose business focus 
never wavers.  Wanting also to get the entire GEICO organization 
concentrating as he does, we needed a compensation plan that was itself 
sharply focused - and immediately after our purchase, we put one in.

     Today, the bonuses received by dozens of top executives, starting with 
Tony, are based upon only two key variables:  (1) growth in voluntary auto 
policies and (2) underwriting profitability on "seasoned" auto business 
(meaning policies that have been on the books for more than one year).  In 
addition, we use the same yardsticks to calculate the annual contribution 
to the company's profit-sharing plan.
Everyone
at GEICO knows what counts.

     The GEICO plan exemplifies Berkshire's incentive compensation 
principles:  Goals should be (1) tailored to the economics of the specific 
operating business; (2) simple in character so that the degree to which 
they are being realized can be easily measured; and (3) directly related to 
the daily activities of plan participants.  As a corollary, we shun 
"lottery ticket" arrangements, such as options on Berkshire shares, whose 
ultimate value - which could range from zero to huge - is totally out of 
the control of the person whose behavior we would like to affect.  In our 
view, a system that produces quixotic payoffs will not only be wasteful for 
owners but may actually discourage the focused behavior we value in 
managers.

     Every quarter, all 9,000 GEICO associates can see the results that 
determine our profit-sharing plan contribution.  In 1996, they enjoyed the 
experience because the plan literally went off the chart that had been 
constructed at the start of the year.  Even I knew the answer to that 
problem:  Enlarge the chart.  Ultimately, the results called for a record 
contribution of 16.9% ($40 million), compared to a five-year average of 
less than 10% for the comparable plans previously in effect.  Furthermore, 
at Berkshire, we never greet good work by raising the bar.  If GEICO's 
performance continues to improve, we will happily keep on making larger 
charts.

     Lou Simpson continues to manage GEICO's money in an outstanding 
manner:  Last year, the equities in his portfolio outdid the S&P 500 by 6.2 
percentage points.  In Lou's part of GEICO's operation, we again tie 
compensation to performance - but to investment performance over a four-
year period, not to underwriting results nor to the performance of GEICO as 
a whole.  We think it foolish for an insurance company to pay bonuses that 
are tied to overall corporate results when great work on one side of the 
business - underwriting or investment - could conceivably be completely 
neutralized by bad work on the other.  If you bat .350 at Berkshire, you 
can be sure you will get paid commensurately even if the rest of the team 
bats .200.  In Lou and Tony, however, we are lucky to have Hall-of-Famers 
in both key positions.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
Though they are, of course, smaller than GEICO, our other primary 
insurance operations turned in equally stunning results last year.  
National Indemnity's traditional business had a combined ratio of 74.2 and, 
as usual, developed a large amount of float compared to premium volume.  
Over the last three years, this segment of our business, run by Don 
Wurster, has had an average combined ratio of 83.0.  Our homestate 
operation, managed by Rod Eldred, recorded a combined ratio of 87.1 even 
though it absorbed the expenses of expanding to new states.  Rod's three-
year combined ratio is an amazing 83.2.  Berkshire's workers' compensation 
business, run out of California by Brad Kinstler, has now moved into six 
other states and, despite the costs of that expansion, again achieved an 
excellent underwriting profit.  Finally, John Kizer, at Central States 
Indemnity, set new records for premium volume while generating good 
earnings from underwriting.  In aggregate, our smaller insurance operations 
(now including Kansas Bankers Surety) have an underwriting record virtually 
unmatched in the industry.  Don, Rod, Brad and John have all created 
significant value for Berkshire, and we believe there is more to come.
Taxes
In 1961, President Kennedy said that we should ask not what our 
country can do for us, but rather ask what we can do for our country.  Last 
year we decided to give his suggestion a try - and who says it never hurts 
to ask?  We were told to mail $860 million in income taxes to the U.S. 
Treasury.

     Here's a little perspective on that figure:  If an equal amount had 
been paid by only 2,000 other taxpayers, the government would have had a 
balanced budget in 1996 without needing a dime of taxes - income or Social 
Security or what have you - from
any
other American.  Berkshire 
shareholders can truly say, "I gave at the office."

     Charlie and I believe that large tax payments by Berkshire are 
entirely fitting.  The contribution we thus make to society's well-being is 
at most only proportional to its contribution to ours.  Berkshire prospers 
in America as it would nowhere else.
Sources of Reported Earnings
The table that follows shows the main sources of Berkshire's reported 
earnings.  In this presentation, purchase-accounting adjustments are not 
assigned to the specific businesses to which they apply, but are instead 
aggregated and shown separately.  This procedure lets you view the earnings 
of our businesses as they would have been reported had we not purchased 
them.  For the reasons discussed on pages 65 and 66, this form of 
presentation seems to us to be more useful to investors and managers than 
one utilizing generally-accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which 
require purchase-premiums to be charged off business-by-business.  The 
total earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP 
total in our audited financial statements.
(in millions)                       
                                         --------------------------------------
                                 			     Berkshire's Share
				                              of Net Earnings  
				                             (after taxes and  
		                         Pre-tax Earnings   minority interests)
----------------   -------------------
                                	   1996    1995(1)     1996  	1995(1) 
                                         -------  --------   -------    -------
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group: