# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1988

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Our gain in net worth during 1988 was $569 million, or 
20.0%.  Over the last 24 years (that is, since present management 
took over), our per-share book value has grown from $19.46 to 
$2,974.52, or at a rate of 23.0% compounded annually.

     We’ve emphasized in past reports that what counts, however, 
is intrinsic business value - the figure, necessarily an 
estimate, indicating what all of our constituent businesses are 
worth.  By our calculations, Berkshire’s intrinsic business value 
significantly exceeds its book value.  Over the 24 years, 
business value has grown somewhat faster than book value; in 
1988, however, book value grew the faster, by a bit.

     Berkshire’s past rates of gain in both book value and 
business value were achieved under circumstances far different 
from those that now exist.  Anyone ignoring these differences 
makes the same mistake that a baseball manager would were he to 
judge the future prospects of a 42-year-old center fielder on the 
basis of his lifetime batting average.

     Important negatives affecting our prospects today are: (1) a 
less attractive stock market than generally existed over the past 
24 years; (2) higher corporate tax rates on most forms of 
investment income; (3) a far more richly-priced market for the 
acquisition of businesses; and (4) industry conditions for 
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., GEICO Corporation, and The Washington 
Post Company - Berkshire’s three permanent investments, 
constituting about one-half of our net worth - that range from 
slightly to materially less favorable than those existing five to 
ten years ago.  All of these companies have superb management and 
strong properties.  But, at current prices, their upside 
potential looks considerably less exciting to us today than it 
did some years ago.

     The major problem we face, however, is a growing capital 
base.  You’ve heard that from us before, but this problem, like 
age, grows in significance each year. (And also, just as with 
age, it’s better to have this problem continue to grow rather 
than to have it “solved.”)

     Four years ago I told you that we needed profits of $3.9 
billion to achieve a 15% annual return over the decade then 
ahead.  Today, for the next decade, a 15% return demands profits 
of $10.3 billion.  That seems like a very big number to me and to 
Charlie Munger, Berkshire’s Vice Chairman and my partner. (Should 
that number indeed prove too big, Charlie will find himself, in 
future reports, retrospectively identified as the senior 
partner.)

     As a partial offset to the drag that our growing capital 
base exerts upon returns, we have a very important advantage now 
that we lacked 24 years ago.  Then, all our capital was tied up 
in a textile business with inescapably poor economic 
characteristics.  Today part of our capital is invested in some 
really exceptional businesses.

     Last year we dubbed these operations the Sainted Seven: 
Buffalo News, Fechheimer, Kirby, Nebraska Furniture Mart, Scott 
Fetzer Manufacturing Group, See’s, and World Book.  In 1988 the 
Saints came marching in.  You can see just how extraordinary 
their returns on capital were by examining the historical-cost 
financial statements on page 45, which combine the figures of the 
Sainted Seven with those of several smaller units.  With no 
benefit from financial leverage, this group earned about 67% on 
average equity capital.

     In most cases the remarkable performance of these units 
arises partially from an exceptional business franchise; in all 
cases an exceptional management is a vital factor.  The 
contribution Charlie and I make is to leave these managers alone.

     In my judgment, these businesses, in aggregate, will 
continue to produce superb returns.  We’ll need these: Without 
this help Berkshire would not have a chance of achieving our 15% 
goal.  You can be sure that our operating managers will deliver; 
the question mark in our future is whether Charlie and I can 
effectively employ the funds that they generate.

     In that respect, we took a step in the right direction early 
in 1989 when we purchased an 80% interest in Borsheim’s, a 
jewelry business in Omaha.  This purchase, described later in 
this letter, delivers exactly what we look for: an outstanding 
business run by people we like, admire, and trust.  It’s a great 
way to start the year.
Accounting Changes
We have made a significant accounting change that was 
mandated for 1988, and likely will have another to make in 1990.  
When we move figures around from year to year, without any change 
in economic reality, one of our always-thrilling discussions of 
accounting is necessary.

     First, I’ll offer my customary disclaimer: Despite the 
shortcomings of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), 
I would hate to have the job of devising a better set of rules.  
The limitations of the existing set, however, need not be 
inhibiting: CEOs are free to treat GAAP statements as a beginning 
rather than an end to their obligation to inform owners and 
creditors - and indeed they should.  After all, any manager of a 
subsidiary company would find himself in hot water if he reported 
barebones GAAP numbers that omitted key information needed by his 
boss, the parent corporation’s CEO.  Why, then, should the CEO 
himself withhold information vitally useful to
his
bosses - the 
shareholder-owners of the corporation?

     What needs to be reported is data - whether GAAP, non-GAAP, 
or extra-GAAP - that helps financially-literate readers answer 
three key questions: (1) Approximately how much is this company 
worth?  (2) What is the likelihood that it can meet its future 
obligations? and (3) How good a job are its managers doing, given 
the hand they have been dealt?

     In most cases, answers to one or more of these questions are 
somewhere between difficult and impossible to glean from the 
minimum GAAP presentation.  The business world is simply too 
complex for a single set of rules to effectively describe 
economic reality for all enterprises, particularly those 
operating in a wide variety of businesses, such as Berkshire.

     Further complicating the problem is the fact that many 
managements view GAAP not as a standard to be met, but as an 
obstacle to overcome.  Too often their accountants willingly 
assist them. (“How much,” says the client, “is two plus two?” 
Replies the cooperative accountant, “What number did you have in 
mind?”) Even honest and well-intentioned managements sometimes 
stretch GAAP a bit in order to present figures they think will 
more appropriately describe their performance.  Both the 
smoothing of earnings and the “big bath” quarter are “white lie” 
techniques employed by otherwise upright managements.

     Then there are managers who actively use GAAP to deceive and 
defraud.  They know that many investors and creditors accept GAAP 
results as gospel.  So these charlatans interpret the rules 
“imaginatively” and record business transactions in ways that 
technically comply with GAAP but actually display an economic 
illusion to the world.

     As long as investors - including supposedly sophisticated 
institutions - place fancy valuations on reported “earnings” that 
march steadily upward, you can be sure that some managers and 
promoters will exploit GAAP to produce such numbers, no matter 
what the truth may be.  Over the years, Charlie and I have 
observed many accounting-based frauds of staggering size.  Few of 
the perpetrators have been punished; many have not even been 
censured.  It has been far safer to steal large sums with a pen 
than small sums with a gun.

     Under one major change mandated by GAAP for 1988, we have 
been required to fully consolidate all our subsidiaries in our 
balance sheet and earnings statement.  In the past, Mutual 
Savings and Loan, and Scott Fetzer Financial (a credit company 
that primarily finances installment sales of World Book and Kirby 
products) were consolidated on a “one-line” basis.  That meant we 
(1) showed our equity in their combined net worths as a single-
entry asset on Berkshire’s consolidated balance sheet and (2) 
included our equity in their combined annual earnings as a 
single-line income entry in our consolidated statement of 
earnings.  Now the rules require that we consolidate each asset 
and liability of these companies in our balance sheet and each 
item of their income and expense in our earnings statement.

     This change underscores the need for companies also to 
report segmented data: The greater the number of economically 
diverse business operations lumped together in conventional 
financial statements, the less useful those presentations are and 
the less able investors are to answer the three questions posed 
earlier.  Indeed, the only reason we ever prepare consolidated 
figures at Berkshire is to meet outside requirements.  On the 
other hand, Charlie and I constantly study our segment data.

     Now that we are required to bundle more numbers in our GAAP 
statements, we have decided to publish additional supplementary 
information that we think will help you measure both business 
value and managerial performance. (Berkshire’s ability to 
discharge its obligations to creditors - the third question we 
listed - should be obvious, whatever statements you examine.) In 
these supplementary presentations, we will not necessarily follow 
GAAP procedures, or even corporate structure.  Rather, we will 