premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases, such as claims arising from exposure to asbestos,
payments can stretch over many decades. This collect-now, pay-later model leaves P/C companies holding large
sums – money we call “float” – that will eventually go to others. Meanwhile, insurers get to invest this float for
their own benefit. Though individual policies and claims come and go, the amount of float an insurer holds
usually remains fairly stable in relation to premium volume. Consequently, as our business grows, so does our
float. And how it has grown, as the following table shows:
Year

Float (in millions)

1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2016

$

39
237
1,632
27,871
65,832
91,577

We recently wrote a huge policy that increased float to more than $100 billion. Beyond that one-time
boost, float at GEICO and several of our specialized operations is almost certain to grow at a good clip. National
Indemnity’s reinsurance division, however, is party to a number of large run-off contracts whose float is certain
to drift downward.
We may in time experience a decline in float. If so, the decline will be very gradual – at the outside no
more than 3% in any year. The nature of our insurance contracts is such that we can never be subject to
immediate or near-term demands for sums that are of significance to our cash resources. This structure is by
design and is a key component in the unequaled financial strength of our insurance companies. It will never be
compromised.
If our premiums exceed the total of our expenses and eventual losses, our insurance operation registers
an underwriting profit that adds to the investment income the float produces. When such a profit is earned, we
enjoy the use of free money – and, better yet, get paid for holding it.
Unfortunately, the wish of all insurers to achieve this happy result creates intense competition, so
vigorous indeed that it sometimes causes the P/C industry as a whole to operate at a significant underwriting loss.
This loss, in effect, is what the industry pays to hold its float. Competitive dynamics almost guarantee that the
insurance industry, despite the float income all its companies enjoy, will continue its dismal record of earning
subnormal returns on tangible net worth as compared to other American businesses.

8

This outcome is made more certain by the dramatically lower interest rates that now exist throughout the
world. The investment portfolios of almost all P/C companies – though not those of Berkshire – are heavily
concentrated in bonds. As these high-yielding legacy investments mature and are replaced by bonds yielding a
pittance, earnings from float will steadily fall. For that reason, and others as well, it’s a good bet that industry
results over the next ten years will fall short of those recorded in the past decade, particularly in the case of
companies that specialize in reinsurance.
Nevertheless, I very much like our own prospects. Berkshire’s unrivaled financial strength allows us far
more flexibility in investing than that generally available to P/C companies. The many alternatives available to us
are always an advantage; occasionally, they offer us major opportunities. When others are constrained, our
choices expand.
Moreover, our P/C companies have an excellent underwriting record. Berkshire has now operated at an
underwriting profit for 14 consecutive years, our pre-tax gain for the period having totaled $28 billion. That
record is no accident: Disciplined risk evaluation is the daily focus of all of our insurance managers, who know
that while float is valuable, its benefits can be drowned by poor underwriting results. All insurers give that
message lip service. At Berkshire it is a religion, Old Testament style.
So how does our float affect intrinsic value? When Berkshire’s book value is calculated, the full amount
of our float is deducted as a liability, just as if we had to pay it out tomorrow and could not replenish it. But to
think of float as a typical liability is a major mistake. It should instead be viewed as a revolving fund. Daily, we
pay old claims and related expenses – a huge $27 billion to more than six million claimants in 2016 – and that
reduces float. Just as surely, we each day write new business that will soon generate its own claims, adding to
float.
If our revolving float is both costless and long-enduring, which I believe it will be, the true value of this
liability is dramatically less than the accounting liability. Owing $1 that in effect will never leave the premises –
because new business is almost certain to deliver a substitute – is worlds different from owing $1 that will go out
the door tomorrow and not be replaced. The two types of liabilities, however, are treated as equals under GAAP.
A partial offset to this overstated liability is a $15.5 billion “goodwill” asset that we incurred in buying
our insurance companies and that is included in our book-value figure. In very large part, this goodwill represents
the price we paid for the float-generating capabilities of our insurance operations. The cost of the goodwill,
however, has no bearing on its true value. For example, if an insurance company sustains large and prolonged
underwriting losses, any goodwill asset carried on the books should be deemed valueless, whatever its original
cost.
Fortunately, that does not describe Berkshire. Charlie and I believe the true economic value of our
insurance goodwill – what we would happily pay for float of similar quality were we to purchase an insurance
operation possessing it – to be far in excess of its historic carrying value. Indeed, almost the entire $15.5 billion
we carry for goodwill in our insurance business was already on our books in 2000 when float was $28 billion.
Yet we have subsequently increased our float by $64 billion, a gain that in no way is reflected in our book value.
This unrecorded asset is one reason – a huge reason – why we believe Berkshire’s intrinsic business value far
exceeds its book value.
************
Berkshire’s attractive insurance economics exist only because we have some terrific managers running
disciplined operations that in most cases possess hard-to-replicate business models. Let me tell you about the
major units.
First by float size is the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, managed by Ajit Jain. Ajit insures
risks that no one else has the desire or the capital to take on. His operation combines capacity, speed,
decisiveness and, most important, brains in a manner unique in the insurance business. Yet he never exposes
Berkshire to risks that are inappropriate in relation to our resources.

9

Indeed, Berkshire is far more conservative in avoiding risk than most large insurers. For example, if the
insurance industry should experience a $250 billion loss from some mega-catastrophe – a loss about triple
anything it has ever experienced – Berkshire as a whole would likely record a large profit for the year. Our many
streams of non-insurance earnings would see to that. Additionally, we would remain awash in cash and be eager
to write business in an insurance market that might well be in disarray. Meanwhile, other major insurers and
reinsurers would be swimming in red ink, if not facing insolvency.
When Ajit entered Berkshire’s office on a Saturday in 1986, he did not have a day’s experience in the
insurance business. Nevertheless, Mike Goldberg, then our manager of insurance, handed him the keys to our
small and struggling reinsurance business. With that move, Mike achieved sainthood: Since then, Ajit has created
tens of billions of value for Berkshire shareholders. If there were ever to be another Ajit and you could swap me
for him, don’t hesitate. Make the trade!
************
We have another reinsurance powerhouse in General Re, managed until recently by Tad Montross. After
39 years at General Re, Tad retired in 2016. Tad was a class act in every way and we owe him a ton of thanks.
Kara Raiguel, who has worked with Ajit for 16 years, is now CEO of General Re.
At bottom, a sound insurance operation needs to adhere to four disciplines. It must (1) understand all
exposures that might cause a policy to incur losses; (2) conservatively assess the likelihood of any exposure
actually causing a loss and the probable cost if it does; (3) set a premium that, on average, will deliver a profit
after both prospective loss costs and operating expenses are covered; and (4) be willing to walk away if the
appropriate premium can’t be obtained.
Many insurers pass the first three tests and flunk the fourth. They simply can’t turn their back on
business that is being eagerly written by their competitors. That old line, “The other guy is doing it, so we must
as well,” spells trouble in any business, but in none more so than insurance. Tad never listened to that
nonsensical excuse for sloppy underwriting, and neither will Kara.
************
Finally, there is GEICO, the company that set my heart afire 66 years ago (and for which the flame still