later) we approach the transaction as if we were buying into a 
private business.  We look at the economic prospects of the 
business, the people in charge of running it, and the price we 
must pay.  We do not have in mind any time or price for sale.  
Indeed, we are willing to hold a stock indefinitely so long as we 
expect the business to increase in intrinsic value at a 
satisfactory rate.  When investing, we view ourselves as business 
analysts - not as market analysts, not as macroeconomic analysts, 
and not even as security analysts. 

     Our approach makes an active trading market useful, since it 
periodically presents us with mouth-watering opportunities.  But 
by no means is it essential: a prolonged suspension of trading in 
the securities we hold would not bother us any more than does the 
lack of daily quotations on World Book or Fechheimer.  
Eventually, our economic fate will be determined by the economic 
fate of the business we own, whether our ownership is partial or 
total. 

     Ben Graham, my friend and teacher, long ago described the 
mental attitude toward market fluctuations that I believe to be 
most conducive to investment success.  He said that you should 
imagine market quotations as coming from a remarkably 
accommodating fellow named Mr. Market who is your partner in a 
private business.  Without fail, Mr. Market appears daily and 
names a price at which he will either buy your interest or sell 
you his. 

     Even though the business that the two of you own may have 
economic characteristics that are stable, Mr. Market's quotations 
will be anything but.  For, sad to say, the poor fellow has 
incurable emotional problems.  At times he feels euphoric and can 
see only the favorable factors affecting the business.  When in 
that mood, he names a very high buy-sell price because he fears 
that you will snap up his interest and rob him of imminent gains.  
At other times he is depressed and can see nothing but trouble 
ahead for both the business and the world.  On these occasions he 
will name a very low price, since he is terrified that you will 
unload your interest on him. 

     Mr. Market has another endearing characteristic: He doesn't 
mind being ignored.  If his quotation is uninteresting to you 
today, he will be back with a new one tomorrow.  Transactions are 
strictly at your option.  Under these conditions, the more manic-
depressive his behavior, the better for you. 

     But, like Cinderella at the ball, you must heed one warning 
or everything will turn into pumpkins and mice: Mr. Market is 
there to serve you, not to guide you.  It is his pocketbook, not 
his wisdom, that you will find useful.  If he shows up some day 
in a particularly foolish mood, you are free to either ignore him 
or to take advantage of him, but it will be disastrous if you 
fall under his influence.  Indeed, if you aren't certain that you 
understand and can value your business far better than Mr. 
Market, you don't belong in the game.  As they say in poker, "If 
you've been in the game 30 minutes and you don't know who the 
patsy is,
you're
the patsy." 

     Ben's Mr. Market allegory may seem out-of-date in today's 
investment world, in which most professionals and academicians 
talk of efficient markets, dynamic hedging and betas.  Their 
interest in such matters is understandable, since techniques 
shrouded in mystery clearly have value to the purveyor of 
investment advice.  After all, what witch doctor has ever 
achieved fame and fortune by simply advising "Take two aspirins"? 

     The value of market esoterica to the consumer of investment 
advice is a different story.  In my opinion, investment success 
will not be produced by arcane formulae, computer programs or 
signals flashed by the price behavior of stocks and markets.  
Rather an investor will succeed by coupling good business 
judgment with an ability to insulate his thoughts and behavior 
from the super-contagious emotions that swirl about the 
marketplace.  In my own efforts to stay insulated, I have found 
it highly useful to keep Ben's Mr. Market concept firmly in mind. 
 
     Following Ben's teachings, Charlie and I let our marketable 
equities tell us by their operating results - not by their daily, 
or even yearly, price quotations - whether our investments are 
successful.  The market may ignore business success for a while, 
but eventually will confirm it.  As Ben said: "In the short run, 
the market is a voting machine but in the long run it is a 
weighing machine." The speed at which a business's success is 
recognized, furthermore, is not that important as long as the 
company's intrinsic value is increasing at a satisfactory rate.  
In fact, delayed recognition can be an advantage: It may give us 
the chance to buy more of a good thing at a bargain price. 

     Sometimes, of course, the market may judge a business to be 
more valuable than the underlying facts would indicate it is.  In 
such a case, we will sell our holdings.  Sometimes, also, we will 
sell a security that is fairly valued or even undervalued because 
we require funds for a still more undervalued investment or one 
we believe we understand better. 

     We need to emphasize, however, that we do not sell holdings 
just because they have appreciated or because we have held them 
for a long time. (Of Wall Street maxims the most foolish may be 
"You can't go broke taking a profit.") We are quite content to 
hold any security indefinitely, so long as the prospective return 
on equity capital of the underlying business is satisfactory, 
management is competent and honest, and the market does not 
overvalue the business. 

     However, our insurance companies own three marketable common 
stocks that we would not sell even though they became far 
overpriced in the market.  In effect, we view these investments 
exactly like our successful controlled businesses - a permanent 
part of Berkshire rather than merchandise to be disposed of once 
Mr. Market offers us a sufficiently high price.  To that, I will 
add one qualifier: These stocks are held by our insurance 
companies and we would, if absolutely necessary, sell portions of 
our holdings to pay extraordinary insurance losses.  We intend, 
however, to manage our affairs so that sales are never required. 

     A determination to have and to hold, which Charlie and I 
share, obviously involves a mixture of personal and financial 
considerations.  To some, our stand may seem highly eccentric. 
(Charlie and I have long followed David Oglivy's advice: "Develop 
your eccentricities while you are young.  That way, when you get 
old, people won't think you're going ga-ga.") Certainly, in the 
transaction-fixated Wall Street of recent years, our posture must 
seem odd: To many in that arena, both companies and stocks are 
seen only as raw material for trades. 

     Our attitude, however, fits our personalities and the way we 
want to live our lives.  Churchill once said, "You shape your 
houses and then they shape you." We know the manner in which we 
wish to be shaped.  For that reason, we would rather achieve a 
return of X while associating with people whom we strongly like 
and admire than realize 110% of X by exchanging these 
relationships for uninteresting or unpleasant ones.  And we will 
never find people we like and admire more than some of the main 
participants at the three companies - our permanent holdings - 
shown below:
No. of Shares                                          Cost       Market
-------------                                       ----------  ----------
                                                        (000s omitted)
3,000,000    Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ...........  $517,500   $1,035,000 
  6,850,000    GEICO Corporation ..................    45,713      756,925 
  1,727,765    The Washington Post Company ........     9,731      323,092 
 
     We really don't see many fundamental differences between the 
purchase of a controlled business and the purchase of marketable 
holdings such as these.  In each case we try to buy into 
businesses with favorable long-term economics.  Our goal is to 
find an outstanding business at a sensible price, not a mediocre 
business at a bargain price.  Charlie and I have found that 
making silk purses out of silk is the best that we can do; with 
sow's ears, we fail. 

     (It must be noted that your Chairman, always a quick study, 
required only 20 years to recognize how important it was to buy 
good businesses.  In the interim, I searched for "bargains" - and 
had the misfortune to find some.  My punishment was an education 
in the economics of short-line farm implement manufacturers, 
third-place department stores, and New England textile 
manufacturers.) 
 
     Of course, Charlie and I may misread the fundamental 
economics of a business.  When that happens, we will encounter 
problems whether that business is a wholly-owned subsidiary or a 
marketable security, although it is usually far easier to exit 
from the latter. (Indeed, businesses can be misread:  Witness the 
European reporter who, after being sent to this country to 
profile Andrew Carnegie, cabled his editor, "My God, you'll never 
believe the sort of money there is in running libraries.") 

     In making both control purchases and stock purchases, we try 
to buy not only good businesses, but ones run by high-grade, 