the helpless engineer? This trauma happens about once a day in North America; it is far more
common in Europe and will always be with us.

12

Wage negotiations in the rail industry can end up in the hands of the President and
Congress. Additionally, American railroads are required to carry many dangerous products every
day that the industry would much rather avoid. The words “common carrier” define
railroad responsibilities.
Last year BNSF’s earnings declined more than I expected, as revenues fell. Though fuel
costs also fell, wage increases, promulgated in Washington, were far beyond the country’s inflation
goals. This differential may recur in future negotiations.
Though BNSF carries more freight and spends more on capital expenditures than any of
the five other major North American railroads, its profit margins have slipped relative to all five
since our purchase. I believe that our vast service territory is second to none and that therefore our
margin comparisons can and should improve.
I am particularly proud of both BNSF’s contribution to the country and the people who
work in sub-zero outdoor jobs in North Dakota and Montana winters to keep America’s
commercial arteries open. Railroads don’t get much attention when they are working but, were
they unavailable, the void would be noticed immediately throughout America.
A century from now, BNSF will continue to be a major asset of the country and of
Berkshire. You can count on that.
************
Our second and even more severe earnings disappointment last year occurred at BHE. Most
of its large electric-utility businesses, as well as its extensive gas pipelines, performed about as
expected. But the regulatory climate in a few states has raised the specter of zero profitability or
even bankruptcy (an actual outcome at California’s largest utility and a current threat in Hawaii).
In such jurisdictions, it is difficult to project both earnings and asset values in what was once
regarded as among the most stable industries in America.
For more than a century, electric utilities raised huge sums to finance their growth through
a state-by-state promise of a fixed return on equity (sometimes with a small bonus for superior
performance). With this approach, massive investments were made for capacity that would likely
be required a few years down the road. That forward-looking regulation reflected the reality that
utilities build generating and transmission assets that often take many years to construct. BHE’s
extensive multi-state transmission project in the West was initiated in 2006 and remains some
years from completion. Eventually, it will serve 10 states comprising 30% of the acreage in the
continental United States.
With this model employed by both private and public-power systems, the lights stayed on,
even if population growth or industrial demand exceeded expectations. The “margin of safety”
approach seemed sensible to regulators, investors and the public. Now, the fixed-but-satisfactoryreturn pact has been broken in a few states, and investors are becoming apprehensive that such
ruptures may spread. Climate change adds to their worries. Underground transmission may be
required but who, a few decades ago, wanted to pay the staggering costs for such construction?

13

At Berkshire, we have made a best estimate for the amount of losses that have occurred.
These costs arose from forest fires, whose frequency and intensity have increased – and will likely
continue to increase – if convective storms become more frequent.
It will be many years until we know the final tally from BHE’s forest-fire losses and can
intelligently make decisions about the desirability of future investments in vulnerable western
states. It remains to be seen whether the regulatory environment will change elsewhere.
Other electric utilities may face survival problems resembling those of Pacific Gas and
Electric and Hawaiian Electric. A confiscatory resolution of our present problems would obviously
be a negative for BHE, but both that company and Berkshire itself are structured to survive
negative surprises. We regularly get these in our insurance business, where our basic product is
risk assumption, and they will occur elsewhere. Berkshire can sustain financial surprises but we
will not knowingly throw good money after bad.
Whatever the case at Berkshire, the final result for the utility industry may be ominous:
Certain utilities might no longer attract the savings of American citizens and will be forced to
adopt the public-power model. Nebraska made this choice in the 1930s and there are many
public-power operations throughout the country. Eventually, voters, taxpayers and users will
decide which model they prefer.
When the dust settles, America’s power needs and the consequent capital expenditure will
be staggering. I did not anticipate or even consider the adverse developments in regulatory returns
and, along with Berkshire’s two partners at BHE, I made a costly mistake in not doing so.
************
Enough about problems: Our insurance business performed exceptionally well last year,
setting records in sales, float and underwriting profits. Property-casualty insurance (“P/C”)
provides the core of Berkshire’s well-being and growth. We have been in the business for 57 years
and despite our nearly 5,000-fold increase in volume – from $17 million to $83 billion – we have
much room to grow.
Beyond that, we have learned – too often, painfully – a good deal about what types of
insurance business and what sort of people to avoid. The most important lesson is that our
underwriters can be thin, fat, male, female, young, old, foreign or domestic. But they can’t be
optimists at the office, however desirable that quality may generally be in life.
Surprises in the P/C business – which can occur decades after six-month or one-year
policies have expired – are almost always negative. The industry’s accounting is designed to
recognize this reality, but estimation mistakes can be huge. And when charlatans are involved,
detection is often both slow and costly. Berkshire will always attempt to be accurate in its estimates
of future loss payments but inflation – both monetary and the “legal” variety – is a wild card.

14

I’ve told the story of our insurance operations so many times that I will simply direct
newcomers to page 18. Here, I will only repeat that our position would not be what it is if Ajit Jain
had not joined Berkshire in 1986. Before that lucky day – aside from an almost unbelievably
wonderful experience with GEICO that began early in 1951 and will never end – I was largely
wandering in the wilderness, as I struggled to build our insurance operation.
Ajit’s achievements since joining Berkshire have been supported by a large cast of
hugely-talented insurance executives in our various P/C operations. Their names and faces are
unknown to most of the press and the public. Berkshire’s lineup of managers, however, is to P/C
insurance what Cooperstown’s honorees are to baseball.
Bertie, you can feel good about the fact that you own a piece of an incredible P/C operation
that now operates worldwide with unmatched financial resources, reputation and talent. It carried
the day in 2023.
What is it with Omaha?
Come to Berkshire’s annual gathering on May 4, 2024. On stage you will see the three
managers who now bear the prime responsibilities for steering your company. What, you may
wonder, do the three have in common? They certainly don’t look alike. Let’s dig deeper.
Greg Abel, who runs all non-insurance operations for Berkshire – and in all respects is
ready to be CEO of Berkshire tomorrow – was born and raised in Canada (he still plays hockey).
In the 1990s, however, Greg lived for six years in Omaha just a few blocks away from me. During
that period, I never met him.
A decade or so earlier, Ajit Jain, who was born, raised and educated in India, lived with his
family in Omaha only a mile or so from my home (where I’ve lived since 1958). Both Ajit and his
wife, Tinku, have many Omaha friends, though it’s been more than three decades since they moved
to New York (in order to be where much of the action in reinsurance takes place).
Missing from the stage this year will be Charlie. He and I were both born in Omaha about
two miles from where you will sit at our May get-together. In his first ten years, Charlie lived
about a half-mile from where Berkshire has long maintained its office. Both Charlie and I spent
our early years in Omaha public schools and were indelibly shaped by our Omaha childhood. We
didn’t meet, however, until much later. (A footnote that may surprise you: Charlie lived under 15
of America’s 45 presidents. People refer to President Biden as #46, but that numbering counts
Grover Cleveland as both #22 and #24 because his terms were not consecutive. America is a very
young country.)

15

Moving to the corporate level, Berkshire itself relocated in 1970 from its 81 years of
residence in New England to settle in Omaha, leaving its troubles behind and blossoming in its
new home.
As a final punctuation point to the “Omaha Effect,” Bertie – yes that Bertie – spent her