1996..........	profit	     6,702.0	    less than zero	  6.64%

     Since 1967, when we entered the insurance business, our float has 
grown at an annual compounded rate of 22.3%.  In more years than not, our 
cost of funds has been less than nothing.  This access to "free" money has 
boosted Berkshire's performance in a major way.  Moreover, our acquisition 
of GEICO materially increases the probability that we can continue to 
obtain "free" funds in increasing amounts.
Super-Cat Insurance
As in the past three years, we once again stress that the good results 
we are reporting for Berkshire stem in part from our super-cat business 
having a lucky year.  In this operation, we sell policies that insurance 
and reinsurance companies buy to protect themselves from the effects of 
mega-catastrophes.  Since truly major catastrophes are rare occurrences, 
our super-cat business can be expected to show large profits in most years 
- and to record a huge loss occasionally.  In other words, the 
attractiveness of our super-cat business will take a great many years to 
measure.
What you must understand, however, is that a truly terrible year 
in the super-cat business is not a possibility - it's a certainty.  The 
only question is when it will come.
I emphasize this lugubrious point because I would not want you to 
panic and sell your Berkshire stock upon hearing that some large 
catastrophe had cost us a significant amount.  If you would tend to react 
that way, you should not own Berkshire shares now, just as you should 
entirely avoid owning stocks if a crashing market would lead you to panic 
and sell.  Selling fine businesses on "scary" news is usually a bad 
decision.  (Robert Woodruff, the business genius who built Coca-Cola over 
many decades and who owned a huge position in the company, was once asked 
when it might be a good time to sell Coke stock.  Woodruff had a simple 
answer:  "I don't know.  I've never sold any.")

     In our super-cat operation, our customers are insurers that are 
exposed to major earnings volatility and that wish to reduce it.  The 
product we sell -  for what we hope is an appropriate price -  is our 
willingness to shift that volatility to our own books.  Gyrations in 
Berkshire's earnings don't bother us in the least:  Charlie and I would 
much rather earn a lumpy 15% over time than a smooth 12%.  (After all, our 
earnings swing wildly on a daily and weekly basis - why should we demand 
that smoothness accompany each orbit that the earth makes of the sun?)  We 
are most comfortable with that thinking, however, when we have 
shareholder/partners who can also accept volatility, and that's why we 
regularly repeat our cautions.

     We took on some major super-cat exposures during 1996.  At mid-year we 
wrote a contract with Allstate that covers Florida hurricanes, and though 
there are no definitive records that would allow us to prove this point, we 
believe that to have
then
been the largest single catastrophe risk ever 
assumed by one company for its own account.  Later in the year, however, we 
wrote a policy for the California Earthquake Authority that goes into 
effect on April 1, 1997, and that exposes us to a loss more than twice that 
possible under the Florida contract.  Again we retained all the risk for 
our own account.  Large as these coverages are, Berkshire's after-tax 
"worst-case" loss from a true mega-catastrophe is probably no more than 
$600 million, which is less than 3% of our book value and 1.5% of our market 
value.  To gain some perspective on this exposure, look at the table on 
page 2 and note the much greater volatility that security markets have 
delivered us.

     In the super-cat business, we have three major competitive advantages. 
First, the parties buying reinsurance from us know that we both can and 
will pay under the most adverse of circumstances.  Were a truly cataclysmic 
disaster to occur, it is not impossible that a financial panic would 
quickly follow.  If that happened, there could well be respected reinsurers 
that would have difficulty paying at just the moment that their clients 
faced extraordinary needs. Indeed, one reason we never "lay off" part of 
the risks we insure is that we have reservations about our ability to 
collect from others when disaster strikes.  When it's Berkshire promising, 
insureds know with certainty that they can collect promptly.

     Our second advantage - somewhat related - is subtle but important.  
After a mega-catastrophe, insurers might well find it difficult to obtain 
reinsurance even though their need for coverage would then be particularly 
great.  At such a time, Berkshire would without question have very 
substantial capacity available - but it will naturally be our long-standing 
clients that have first call on it.  That business reality has made major 
insurers and reinsurers throughout the world realize the desirability of 
doing business with us.  Indeed, we are currently getting sizable "stand-
by" fees from reinsurers that are simply nailing down their ability to get 
coverage from us should the market tighten.

     Our final competitive advantage is that we can provide dollar 
coverages of a size neither matched nor approached elsewhere in the 
industry.  Insurers looking for huge covers know that a single call to 
Berkshire will produce a firm and immediate offering.

     A few facts about our exposure to California earthquakes - our largest 
risk - seem in order.  The Northridge quake of 1994 laid homeowners' losses 
on insurers that greatly exceeded what computer models had told them to 
expect.  Yet the intensity of that quake was mild compared to the "worst-
case" possibility for California.  Understandably, insurers became - ahem - 
shaken and started contemplating a retreat from writing earthquake coverage 
into their homeowners' policies.

     In a thoughtful response, Chuck Quackenbush, California's insurance 
commissioner, designed a new residential earthquake policy to be written by 
a state-sponsored insurer, The California Earthquake Authority.  This 
entity, which went into operation on December 1, 1996, needed large layers 
of reinsurance - and that's where we came in.  Berkshire's layer of 
approximately $1 billion will be called upon if the Authority's aggregate 
losses in the period ending March 31, 2001 exceed about $5 billion.  (The 
press originally reported larger figures, but these would have applied only 
if all California insurers had entered into the arrangement; instead only 
72% signed up.)

     So what are the true odds of our having to make a payout during the 
policy's term?  We don't know - nor do we think computer models will help 
us, since we believe the precision they project is a chimera.  In fact, 
such models can lull decision-makers into a false sense of security and 
thereby increase their chances of making a really huge mistake.  We've 
already seen such debacles in both insurance and investments.  Witness 
"portfolio insurance," whose destructive effects in the 1987 market crash 
led one wag to observe that it was the computers that should have been 
jumping out of windows.

     Even if perfection in assessing risks is unattainable, insurers can 
underwrite sensibly.  After all, you need not know a man's precise age to 
know that he is old enough to vote nor know his exact weight to recognize 
his need to diet.  In insurance, it is essential to remember that virtually 
all surprises are unpleasant, and with that in mind we try to price our 
super-cat exposures so that about 90% of total premiums end up being 
eventually paid out in losses and expenses.  Over time, we will find out 
how smart our pricing has been, but that will not be quickly.  The super-
cat business is just like the investment business in that it often takes a 
long time to find out whether you knew what you were doing.

     What I can state with certainty, however, is that we have the best 
person in the world to run our super-cat business:  Ajit Jain, whose value 
to Berkshire is simply enormous.  In the reinsurance field, disastrous 
propositions abound.  I know that because I personally embraced all too 
many of these in the 1970s and also because GEICO has a large runoff 
portfolio made up of foolish contracts written in the early-1980s, able 
though its then-management was.  Ajit, I can assure you, won't make 
mistakes of this type.

     I have mentioned that a mega-catastrophe might cause a catastrophe in 
the financial markets, a possibility that is unlikely but not far-fetched. 
Were the catastrophe a quake in California of sufficient magnitude to tap 
our coverage, we would almost certainly be damaged in other ways as well.  
For example, See's, Wells Fargo and Freddie Mac could be hit hard.  All in 
all, though, we can handle this aggregation of exposures.

     In this respect, as in others, we try to "reverse engineer" our future 
at Berkshire, bearing in mind Charlie's dictum:  "All I want to know is 
where I'm going to die so I'll never go there."  (Inverting really works:  
Try singing country western songs backwards and you will quickly regain 
your house, your car and your wife.)  If we can't tolerate a possible 