incredible job in creating value for his shareholders.  Aided by Don 
Keough and Doug Ivester, Roberto has rethought and improved every aspect 
of the company.  But the fundamentals of the business - the qualities 
that underlie Coke's competitive dominance and stunning economics - have 
remained constant through the years.

     I was recently studying the 1896 report of Coke (and you think that
you
are behind in your reading!).  At that time Coke, though it was 
already the leading soft drink, had been around for only a decade.  But 
its blueprint for the next 100 years was already drawn.  Reporting sales 
of $148,000 that year, Asa Candler, the company's president, said:  "We 
have not lagged in our efforts to go into all the world teaching that 
Coca-Cola is the article, par excellence, for the health and good feeling 
of all people."  Though "health" may have been a reach, I love the fact 
that Coke still relies on Candler's basic theme today - a century later. 
Candler went on to say, just as Roberto could now, "No article of like 
character has ever so firmly entrenched itself in public favor."  Sales 
of syrup that year, incidentally, were 116,492 gallons versus about 3.2 
billion in 1996.

     I can't resist one more Candler quote:  "Beginning this year about 
March 1st . . . we employed ten traveling salesmen by means of which, 
with systematic correspondence from the office, we covered almost the 
territory of the Union."  That's my kind of sales force.

     Companies such as Coca-Cola and Gillette might well be labeled "The 
Inevitables."  Forecasters may differ a bit in their predictions of 
exactly how much soft drink or shaving-equipment business these companies 
will be doing in ten or twenty years.  Nor is our talk of inevitability 
meant to play down the vital work that these companies must continue to 
carry out, in such areas as manufacturing, distribution, packaging and 
product innovation.  In the end, however, no sensible observer - not even 
these companies' most vigorous competitors, assuming they are assessing 
the matter honestly - questions that Coke and Gillette will dominate 
their fields worldwide for an investment lifetime.  Indeed, their 
dominance will probably strengthen.  Both companies have significantly 
expanded their already huge shares of market during the past ten years, 
and all signs point to their repeating that performance in the next 
decade.

     Obviously many companies in high-tech businesses or embryonic 
industries will grow much faster in percentage terms than will The 
Inevitables.  But I would rather be certain of a good result than hopeful 
of a great one.

     Of course, Charlie and I can identify only a few Inevitables, even 
after a lifetime of looking for them.  Leadership alone provides no 
certainties:  Witness the shocks some years back at General Motors, IBM 
and Sears, all of which had enjoyed long periods of seeming 
invincibility.  Though some industries or lines of business exhibit 
characteristics that endow leaders with virtually insurmountable 
advantages, and that tend to establish Survival of the Fattest as almost 
a natural law, most do not.  Thus, for every Inevitable, there are dozens 
of Impostors, companies now riding high but vulnerable to competitive 
attacks.  Considering what it takes to be an Inevitable, Charlie and I 
recognize that we will never be able to come up with a Nifty Fifty or 
even a Twinkling Twenty.  To the Inevitables in our portfolio, therefore, 
we add a few "Highly Probables."

     You can, of course, pay too much for even the best of businesses.  
The overpayment risk surfaces periodically and, in our opinion, may now 
be quite high for the purchasers of virtually all stocks, The Inevitables 
included.  Investors making purchases in an overheated market need to 
recognize that it may often take an extended period for the value of even 
an outstanding company to catch up with the price they paid.

     A far more serious problem occurs when the management of a great 
company gets sidetracked and neglects its wonderful base business while 
purchasing other businesses that are so-so or worse.  When that happens, 
the suffering of investors is often prolonged.  Unfortunately, that is 
precisely what transpired years ago at both Coke and Gillette.  (Would 
you believe that a few decades back they were growing shrimp at Coke and 
exploring for oil at Gillette?)  Loss of focus is what most worries 
Charlie and me when we contemplate investing in businesses that in 
general look outstanding.  All too often, we've seen value stagnate in 
the presence of hubris or of boredom that caused the attention of 
managers to wander.  That's not going to happen again at Coke and 
Gillette, however - not given their current and prospective managements.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
Let me add a few thoughts about your own investments.  Most 
investors, both institutional and individual, will find that the best way 
to own common stocks is through an index fund that charges minimal fees. 
Those following this path are sure to beat the net results (after fees 
and expenses) delivered by the great majority of investment 
professionals.

     Should you choose, however, to construct your own portfolio, there 
are a few thoughts worth remembering.  Intelligent investing is not 
complex, though that is far from saying that it is easy.  What an 
investor needs is the ability to correctly evaluate selected businesses. 
Note that word "selected":  You don't have to be an expert on every 
company, or even many.  You only have to be able to evaluate companies 
within your circle of competence.  The size of that circle is not very 
important; knowing its boundaries, however, is vital.

     To invest successfully, you need not understand beta, efficient 
markets, modern portfolio theory, option pricing or emerging markets.  
You may, in fact, be better off knowing nothing of these.  That, of 
course, is not the prevailing view at most business schools, whose 
finance curriculum tends to be dominated by such subjects.  In our view, 
though, investment students need only two well-taught courses - How to 
Value a Business, and How to Think About Market Prices.

     Your goal as an investor should simply be to purchase, at a rational 
price, a part interest in an easily-understandable business whose 
earnings are virtually certain to be materially higher five, ten and 
twenty years from now.  Over time, you will find only a few companies 
that meet these standards - so when you see one that qualifies, you 
should buy a meaningful amount of stock.  You must also resist the 
temptation to stray from your guidelines:  If you aren't willing to own a 
stock for ten years, don't even think about owning it for ten minutes.  
Put together a portfolio of companies whose aggregate earnings march 
upward over the years, and so also will the portfolio's market value.

     Though it's seldom recognized, this is the exact approach that has 
produced gains for Berkshire shareholders:  Our look-through earnings 
have grown at a good clip over the years, and our stock price has risen 
correspondingly.  Had those gains in earnings not materialized, there 
would have been little increase in Berkshire's value.

     The greatly enlarged earnings base we now enjoy will inevitably 
cause our future gains to lag those of the past.  We will continue, 
however, to push in the directions we always have.  We will try to build 
earnings by running our present businesses well - a job made easy because 
of the extraordinary talents of our operating managers - and by 
purchasing other businesses, in whole or in part, that are not likely to 
be roiled by change and that possess important competitive advantages.
USAir
When Richard Branson, the wealthy owner of Virgin Atlantic Airways, 
was asked how to become a millionaire, he had a quick answer:  "There's 
really nothing to it.  Start as a billionaire and then buy an airline."  
Unwilling to accept Branson's proposition on faith, your Chairman decided 
in 1989 to test it by investing $358 million in a 9.25% preferred stock of 
USAir.

     I liked and admired Ed Colodny, the company's then-CEO, and I still 
do.  But my analysis of USAir's business was both superficial and wrong. 
I was so beguiled by the company's long history of profitable 
operations, and by the protection that ownership of a senior security 
seemingly offered me, that I overlooked the crucial point:  USAir's 
revenues would increasingly feel the effects of an unregulated, fiercely-
competitive market whereas its cost structure was a holdover from the 
days when regulation protected profits.  These costs, if left unchecked, 
portended disaster, however reassuring the airline's past record might 
be.  (If history supplied all of the answers, the Forbes 400 would 
consist of librarians.)

     To rationalize its costs, however, USAir needed major improvements 
in its labor contracts - and that's something most airlines have found it 
extraordinarily difficult to get, short of credibly threatening, or 
actually entering, bankruptcy.  USAir was to be no exception.  
Immediately after we purchased our preferred stock, the imbalance between 
the company's costs and revenues began to grow explosively.  In the 1990-
1994 period, USAir lost an aggregate of $2.4 billion, a performance that 