Let’s do the math. If IBM’s stock price averages, say, $200 during the period, the company will acquire
250 million shares for its $50 billion. There would consequently be 910 million shares outstanding, and we
would own about 7% of the company. If the stock conversely sells for an average of $300 during the five-year
period, IBM will acquire only 167 million shares. That would leave about 990 million shares outstanding after
five years, of which we would own 6.5%.
If IBM were to earn, say, $20 billion in the fifth year, our share of those earnings would be a full $100
million greater under the “disappointing” scenario of a lower stock price than they would have been at the higher
price. At some later point our shares would be worth perhaps $1 1⁄ 2 billion more than if the “high-price”
repurchase scenario had taken place.
The logic is simple: If you are going to be a net buyer of stocks in the future, either directly with your own
money or indirectly (through your ownership of a company that is repurchasing shares), you are hurt when stocks
rise. You benefit when stocks swoon. Emotions, however, too often complicate the matter: Most people, including
those who will be net buyers in the future, take comfort in seeing stock prices advance. These shareholders resemble
a commuter who rejoices after the price of gas increases, simply because his tank contains a day’s supply.
Charlie and I don’t expect to win many of you over to our way of thinking – we’ve observed enough
human behavior to know the futility of that – but we do want you to be aware of our personal calculus. And here
a confession is in order: In my early days I, too, rejoiced when the market rose. Then I read Chapter Eight of Ben
Graham’s The Intelligent Investor, the chapter dealing with how investors should view fluctuations in stock
prices. Immediately the scales fell from my eyes, and low prices became my friend. Picking up that book was one
of the luckiest moments in my life.
In the end, the success of our IBM investment will be determined primarily by its future earnings. But
an important secondary factor will be how many shares the company purchases with the substantial sums it is
likely to devote to this activity. And if repurchases ever reduce the IBM shares outstanding to 63.9 million, I will
abandon my famed frugality and give Berkshire employees a paid holiday.
************
Now, let’s examine the four major sectors of our operations. Each has vastly different balance sheet
and income characteristics from the others. Lumping them together therefore impedes analysis. So we’ll present
them as four separate businesses, which is how Charlie and I view them. Because we may be repurchasing
Berkshire shares from some of you, we will offer our thoughts in each section as to how intrinsic value compares
to carrying value.

7

Insurance
Let’s look first at insurance, Berkshire’s core operation and the engine that has propelled our expansion
over the years.
Property-casualty (“P/C”) insurers receive premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases,
such as those arising from certain workers’ compensation accidents, payments can stretch over decades. This
collect-now, pay-later model leaves us holding large sums – money we call “float” – that will eventually go to
others. Meanwhile, we get to invest this float for Berkshire’s benefit. Though individual policies and claims
come and go, the amount of float we hold remains remarkably stable in relation to premium volume.
Consequently, as our business grows, so does our float. And how we have grown, as the following table shows:
Year

Float (in $ millions)

1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2011

$

39
237
1,632
27,871
65,832
70,571

It’s unlikely that our float will grow much – if at all – from its current level. That’s mainly because we
already have an outsized amount relative to our premium volume. Were there to be a decline in float, I will add,
it would almost certainly be very gradual and therefore impose no unusual demand for funds on us.
If our premiums exceed the total of our expenses and eventual losses, we register an underwriting profit
that adds to the investment income our float produces. When such a profit occurs, we enjoy the use of free
money – and, better yet, get paid for holding it. Unfortunately, the wish of all insurers to achieve this happy
result creates intense competition, so vigorous in most years that it causes the P/C industry as a whole to
operate at a significant underwriting loss. For example, State Farm, by far the country’s largest insurer and a well-managed
company besides, has incurred an underwriting loss in eight of the last eleven years. There are
a lot of ways to lose money in insurance, and the industry is resourceful in creating new ones.
As noted in the first section of this report, we have now operated at an underwriting profit for nine
consecutive years, our gain for the period having totaled $17 billion. I believe it likely that we will continue to
underwrite profitably in most – though certainly not all – future years. If we accomplish that, our float will be
better than cost-free. We will profit just as we would if some party deposited $70.6 billion with us, paid us a fee
for holding its money and then let us invest its funds for our own benefit.
So how does this attractive float affect intrinsic value calculations? Our float is deducted in full as a
liability in calculating Berkshire’s book value, just as if we had to pay it out tomorrow and were unable to
replenish it. But that’s an incorrect way to view float, which should instead be viewed as a revolving fund. If
float is both costless and long-enduring, the true value of this liability is far lower than the accounting liability.
Partially offsetting this overstated liability is $15.5 billion of “goodwill” attributable to our insurance
companies that is included in book value as an asset. In effect, this goodwill represents the price we paid for the
float-generating capabilities of our insurance operations. The cost of the goodwill, however, has no bearing on its
true value. If an insurance business produces large and sustained underwriting losses, any goodwill asset
attributable to it should be deemed valueless, whatever its original cost.
Fortunately, that’s not the case at Berkshire. Charlie and I believe the true economic value of our
insurance goodwill – what we would pay to purchase float of similar quality – to be far in excess of its historic
carrying value. The value of our float is one reason – a huge reason – why we believe Berkshire’s intrinsic
business value substantially exceeds book value.
Let me emphasize once again that cost-free float is not an outcome to be expected for the P/C industry
as a whole: We don’t think there is much “Berkshire-quality” float existing in the insurance world. In most years,
including 2011, the industry’s premiums have been inadequate to cover claims plus expenses. Consequently, the
8

industry’s overall return on tangible equity has for many decades fallen far short of the average return realized by
American industry, a sorry performance almost certain to continue. Berkshire’s outstanding economics exist only
because we have some terrific managers running some extraordinary insurance operations. Let me tell you about
the major units.
************
First by float size is the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, run by Ajit Jain. Ajit insures risks
that no one else has the desire or the capital to take on. His operation combines capacity, speed, decisiveness and,
most importantly, brains in a manner that is unique in the insurance business. Yet he never exposes Berkshire to
risks that are inappropriate in relation to our resources. Indeed, we are far more conservative in that respect than
most large insurers. For example, if the insurance industry should experience a $250 billion loss from some
mega-catastrophe – a loss about triple anything it has ever faced – Berkshire as a whole would likely record a
moderate profit for the year because of its many streams of earnings. Concurrently, all other major insurers and
reinsurers would be far in the red, and some would face insolvency.
From a standing start in 1985, Ajit has created an insurance business with float of $34 billion and
significant underwriting profits, a feat that no CEO of any other insurer has come close to matching. By these
accomplishments, he has added a great many billions of dollars to the value of Berkshire. Charlie would gladly
trade me for a second Ajit. Alas, there is none.
************
We have another insurance powerhouse in General Re, managed by Tad Montross.
At bottom, a sound insurance operation needs to adhere to four disciplines. It must (1) understand all
exposures that might cause a policy to incur losses; (2) conservatively evaluate the likelihood of any exposure
actually causing a loss and the probable cost if it does; (3) set a premium that will deliver a profit, on average,