that gain nor the size of our float is reflected in Berkshire’s earnings, float generates significant investment
income because of the assets it allows us to hold.
Meanwhile, our underwriting profit totaled $26 billion during the 13-year period, including $1.8 billion
earned in 2015. Without a doubt, Berkshire’s largest unrecorded wealth lies in its insurance business.
We’ve spent 48 years building this multi-faceted operation, and it can’t be replicated.

‹

While Charlie and I search for new businesses to buy, our many subsidiaries are regularly making bolt-on
acquisitions. Last year we contracted for 29 bolt-ons, scheduled to cost $634 million in aggregate. The cost
of these purchases ranged from $300,000 to $143 million.
Charlie and I encourage bolt-ons, if they are sensibly-priced. (Most deals offered us most definitely aren’t.)
These purchases deploy capital in operations that fit with our existing businesses and that will be managed
by our corps of expert managers. That means no additional work for us, yet more earnings for Berkshire, a
combination we find highly appealing. We will make many dozens of bolt-on deals in future years.

5

‹

Our Heinz partnership with Jorge Paulo Lemann, Alex Behring and Bernardo Hees more than doubled its
size last year by merging with Kraft. Before this transaction, we owned about 53% of Heinz at a cost of
$4.25 billion. Now we own 325.4 million shares of Kraft Heinz (about 27%) that cost us $9.8 billion. The
new company has annual sales of $27 billion and can supply you Heinz ketchup or mustard to go with your
Oscar Mayer hot dogs that come from the Kraft side. Add a Coke, and you will be enjoying my favorite
meal. (We will have the Oscar Mayer Wienermobile at the annual meeting – bring your kids.)
Though we sold no Kraft Heinz shares, “GAAP” (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) required us
to record a $6.8 billion write-up of our investment upon completion of the merger. That leaves us with our
Kraft Heinz holding carried on our balance sheet at a value many billions above our cost and many billions
below its market value, an outcome only an accountant could love.
Berkshire also owns Kraft Heinz preferred shares that pay us $720 million annually and are carried at $7.7
billion on our balance sheet. That holding will almost certainly be redeemed for $8.32 billion in June (the
earliest date allowed under the preferred’s terms). That will be good news for Kraft Heinz and bad news for
Berkshire.
Jorge Paulo and his associates could not be better partners. We share with them a passion to buy, build and
hold large businesses that satisfy basic needs and desires. We follow different paths, however, in pursuing
this goal.
Their method, at which they have been extraordinarily successful, is to buy companies that offer an
opportunity for eliminating many unnecessary costs and then – very promptly – to make the moves that will
get the job done. Their actions significantly boost productivity, the all-important factor in America’s
economic growth over the past 240 years. Without more output of desired goods and services per working
hour – that’s the measure of productivity gains – an economy inevitably stagnates. At much of corporate
America, truly major gains in productivity are possible, a fact offering opportunities to Jorge Paulo and his
associates.
At Berkshire, we, too, crave efficiency and detest bureaucracy. To achieve our goals, however, we follow
an approach emphasizing avoidance of bloat, buying businesses such as PCC that have long been run by
cost-conscious and efficient managers. After the purchase, our role is simply to create an environment in
which these CEOs – and their eventual successors, who typically are like-minded – can maximize both
their managerial effectiveness and the pleasure they derive from their jobs. (With this hands-off style, I am
heeding a well-known Mungerism: “If you want to guarantee yourself a lifetime of misery, be sure to
marry someone with the intent of changing their behavior.”)
We will continue to operate with extreme – indeed, almost unheard of – decentralization at Berkshire. But
we will also look for opportunities to partner with Jorge Paulo, either as a financing partner, as was the
case when his group purchased Tim Horton’s, or as a combined equity-and-financing partner, as at Heinz.
We also may occasionally partner with others, as we have successfully done at Berkadia.
Berkshire, however, will join only with partners making friendly acquisitions. To be sure, certain hostile
offers are justified: Some CEOs forget that it is shareholders for whom they should be working, while other
managers are woefully inept. In either case, directors may be blind to the problem or simply reluctant to
make the change required. That’s when new faces are needed. We, though, will leave these “opportunities”
for others. At Berkshire, we go only where we are welcome.

6

‹

Berkshire increased its ownership interest last year in each of its “Big Four” investments – American
Express, Coca-Cola, IBM and Wells Fargo. We purchased additional shares of IBM (increasing our
ownership to 8.4% versus 7.8% at yearend 2014) and Wells Fargo (going to 9.8% from 9.4%). At the other
two companies, Coca-Cola and American Express, stock repurchases raised our percentage ownership. Our
equity in Coca-Cola grew from 9.2% to 9.3%, and our interest in American Express increased from 14.8%
to 15.6%. In case you think these seemingly small changes aren’t important, consider this math: For the
four companies in aggregate, each increase of one percentage point in our ownership raises Berkshire’s
portion of their annual earnings by about $500 million.
These four investees possess excellent businesses and are run by managers who are both talented and
shareholder-oriented. Their returns on tangible equity range from excellent to staggering. At Berkshire, we
much prefer owning a non-controlling but substantial portion of a wonderful company to owning 100% of
a so-so business. It’s better to have a partial interest in the Hope Diamond than to own all of a rhinestone.
If Berkshire’s yearend holdings are used as the marker, our portion of the “Big Four’s” 2015 earnings
amounted to $4.7 billion. In the earnings we report to you, however, we include only the dividends they
pay us – about $1.8 billion last year. But make no mistake: The nearly $3 billion of these companies’
earnings we don’t report are every bit as valuable to us as the portion Berkshire records.
The earnings our investees retain are often used for repurchases of their own stock – a move that increases
Berkshire’s share of future earnings without requiring us to lay out a dime. The retained earnings of these
companies also fund business opportunities that usually turn out to be advantageous. All that leads us to
expect that the per-share earnings of these four investees, in aggregate, will grow substantially over time. If
gains do indeed materialize, dividends to Berkshire will increase and so, too, will our unrealized capital
gains.
Our flexibility in capital allocation – our willingness to invest large sums passively in non-controlled
businesses – gives us a significant edge over companies that limit themselves to acquisitions they will
operate. Woody Allen once explained that the advantage of being bi-sexual is that it doubles your chance
of finding a date on Saturday night. In like manner – well, not exactly like manner – our appetite for either
operating businesses or passive investments doubles our chances of finding sensible uses for Berkshire’s
endless gusher of cash. Beyond that, having a huge portfolio of marketable securities gives us a stockpile
of funds that can be tapped when an elephant-sized acquisition is offered to us.
************

It’s an election year, and candidates can’t stop speaking about our country’s problems (which, of course,
only they can solve). As a result of this negative drumbeat, many Americans now believe that their children will not
live as well as they themselves do.
That view is dead wrong: The babies being born in America today are the luckiest crop in history.
American GDP per capita is now about $56,000. As I mentioned last year that – in real terms – is a
staggering six times the amount in 1930, the year I was born, a leap far beyond the wildest dreams of my parents or
their contemporaries. U.S. citizens are not intrinsically more intelligent today, nor do they work harder than did
Americans in 1930. Rather, they work far more efficiently and thereby produce far more. This all-powerful trend is
certain to continue: America’s economic magic remains alive and well.
Some commentators bemoan our current 2% per year growth in real GDP – and, yes, we would all like to
see a higher rate. But let’s do some simple math using the much-lamented 2% figure. That rate, we will see, delivers
astounding gains.

7

America’s population is growing about .8% per year (.5% from births minus deaths and .3% from net
migration). Thus 2% of overall growth produces about 1.2% of per capita growth. That may not sound impressive.
But in a single generation of, say, 25 years, that rate of growth leads to a gain of 34.4% in real GDP per capita.