effect, using counterfeit money. Periodically, many air-for-assets acquisitions have taken place, the late 1960s
having been a particularly obscene period for such chicanery. Indeed, certain large companies were built in this
way. (No one involved, of course, ever publicly acknowledges the reality of what is going on, though there is
plenty of private snickering.)
In our BNSF acquisition, the selling shareholders quite properly evaluated our offer at $100 per share.
The cost to us, however, was somewhat higher since 40% of the $100 was delivered in our shares, which Charlie
and I believed to be worth more than their market value. Fortunately, we had long owned a substantial amount of
BNSF stock that we purchased in the market for cash. All told, therefore, only about 30% of our cost overall was
paid with Berkshire shares.
In the end, Charlie and I decided that the disadvantage of paying 30% of the price through stock was
offset by the opportunity the acquisition gave us to deploy $22 billion of cash in a business we understood and
liked for the long term. It has the additional virtue of being run by Matt Rose, whom we trust and admire. We
also like the prospect of investing additional billions over the years at reasonable rates of return. But the final
decision was a close one. If we had needed to use more stock to make the acquisition, it would in fact have made
no sense. We would have then been giving up more than we were getting.
************
I have been in dozens of board meetings in which acquisitions have been deliberated, often with the
directors being instructed by high-priced investment bankers (are there any other kind?). Invariably, the bankers
give the board a detailed assessment of the value of the company being purchased, with emphasis on why it is
worth far more than its market price. In more than fifty years of board memberships, however, never have I heard
the investment bankers (or management!) discuss the true value of what is being given. When a deal involved the
issuance of the acquirer’s stock, they simply used market value to measure the cost. They did this even though
they would have argued that the acquirer’s stock price was woefully inadequate – absolutely no indicator of its
real value – had a takeover bid for the acquirer instead been the subject up for discussion.
When stock is the currency being contemplated in an acquisition and when directors are hearing from
an advisor, it appears to me that there is only one way to get a rational and balanced discussion. Directors should
hire a second advisor to make the case against the proposed acquisition, with its fee contingent on the deal not
going through. Absent this drastic remedy, our recommendation in respect to the use of advisors remains: “Don’t
ask the barber whether you need a haircut.”
************
I can’t resist telling you a true story from long ago. We owned stock in a large well-run bank that for
decades had been statutorily prevented from acquisitions. Eventually, the law was changed and our bank
immediately began looking for possible purchases. Its managers – fine people and able bankers – not
unexpectedly began to behave like teenage boys who had just discovered girls.
They soon focused on a much smaller bank, also well-run and having similar financial characteristics
in such areas as return on equity, interest margin, loan quality, etc. Our bank sold at a modest price (that’s why
we had bought into it), hovering near book value and possessing a very low price/earnings ratio. Alongside,
though, the small-bank owner was being wooed by other large banks in the state and was holding out for a price
close to three times book value. Moreover, he wanted stock, not cash.
Naturally, our fellows caved in and agreed to this value-destroying deal. “We need to show that we are
in the hunt. Besides, it’s only a small deal,” they said, as if only major harm to shareholders would have been a
legitimate reason for holding back. Charlie’s reaction at the time: “Are we supposed to applaud because the dog
that fouls our lawn is a Chihuahua rather than a Saint Bernard?”

17

The seller of the smaller bank – no fool – then delivered one final demand in his negotiations. “After
the merger,” he in effect said, perhaps using words that were phrased more diplomatically than these, “I’m going
to be a large shareholder of your bank, and it will represent a huge portion of my net worth. You have to promise
me, therefore, that you’ll never again do a deal this dumb.”
Yes, the merger went through. The owner of the small bank became richer, we became poorer, and the
managers of the big bank – newly bigger – lived happily ever after.
The Annual Meeting
Our best guess is that 35,000 people attended the annual meeting last year (up from 12 – no zeros
omitted – in 1981). With our shareholder population much expanded, we expect even more this year. Therefore,
we will have to make a few changes in the usual routine. There will be no change, however, in our enthusiasm
for having you attend. Charlie and I like to meet you, answer your questions and – best of all – have you buy lots
of goods from our businesses.
The meeting this year will be held on Saturday, May 1st. As always, the doors will open at the Qwest
Center at 7 a.m., and a new Berkshire movie will be shown at 8:30. At 9:30 we will go directly to the
question-and-answer period, which (with a break for lunch at the Qwest’s stands) will last until 3:30. After a
short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:45. If you decide to leave during the day’s
question periods, please do so while Charlie is talking. (Act fast; he can be terse.)
The best reason to exit, of course, is to shop. We will help you do that by filling the 194,300-squarefoot hall that adjoins the meeting area with products from dozens of Berkshire subsidiaries. Last year, you did
your part, and most locations racked up record sales. But you can do better. (A friendly warning: If I find sales
are lagging, I get testy and lock the exits.)
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a
shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 44 of the 51 jurisdictions in which we
operate. (One supplemental point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as that given
certain groups.) Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you money. For
at least 50% of you, I believe we can.
Be sure to visit the Bookworm. Among the more than 30 books and DVDs it will offer are two new
books by my sons: Howard’s Fragile, a volume filled with photos and commentary about lives of struggle
around the globe and Peter’s Life Is What You Make It. Completing the family trilogy will be the debut of my
sister Doris’s biography, a story focusing on her remarkable philanthropic activities. Also available will be Poor
Charlie’s Almanack, the story of my partner. This book is something of a publishing miracle – never advertised,
yet year after year selling many thousands of copies from its Internet site. (Should you need to ship your book
purchases, a nearby shipping service will be available.)
If you are a big spender – or, for that matter, merely a gawker – visit Elliott Aviation on the east side of
the Omaha airport between noon and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday. There we will have a fleet of NetJets aircraft that
will get your pulse racing.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car reservations,
we have again signed up American Express (800-799-6634) to give you special help. Carol Pedersen, who
handles these matters, does a terrific job for us each year, and I thank her for it. Hotel rooms can be hard to find,
but work with Carol and you will get one.

18

At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we
will again be having “Berkshire Weekend” discount pricing. To obtain the Berkshire discount, you must make
your purchases between Thursday, April 29th and Monday, May 3rd inclusive, and also present your meeting
credential. The period’s special pricing will even apply to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that
normally have ironclad rules against discounting but which, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made
an exception for you. We appreciate their cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through