that it's not wise to pick fights with people who buy ink by the 
barrel.) 

     You should understand that we simply don't comment in any 
way on rumors, whether they are true or false.  If we were to 
deny the incorrect reports and refuse comment on the correct 
ones, we would in effect be commenting on all. 

     In a world in which big investment ideas are both limited 
and valuable, we have no interest in telling potential 
competitors what we are doing except to the extent required by 
law.  We certainly don't expect others to tell us of their 
investment ideas.  Nor would we expect a media company to 
disclose news of acquisitions it was privately pursuing or a 
journalist to tell his competitors about stories on which he is 
working or sources he is using. 

     I find it uncomfortable when friends or acquaintances 
mention that they are buying X because it has been reported - 
incorrectly - that Berkshire is a buyer.  However, I do not set 
them straight.  If they want to participate in whatever Berkshire 
actually is buying, they can always purchase Berkshire stock.  
But perhaps that is too simple.  Usually, I suspect, they find it 
more exciting to buy what is being talked about.  Whether that 
strategy is more profitable is another question.
Financing
Shortly after yearend, Berkshire sold two issues of 
debentures, totaling $250 million.  Both issues mature in 2018 
and will be retired at an even pace through sinking fund 
operations that begin in 1999.  Our overall interest cost, after 
allowing for expenses of issuance, is slightly over 10%.  Salomon 
was our investment banker, and its service was excellent. 

     Despite our pessimistic views about inflation, our taste for 
debt is quite limited.  To be sure, it is likely that Berkshire 
could improve its return on equity by moving to a much higher, 
though still conventional, debt-to-business-value ratio.  It's 
even more likely that we could handle such a ratio, without 
problems, under economic conditions far worse than any that have 
prevailed since the early 1930s. 

     But we do not wish it to be only likely that we can meet our 
obligations; we wish that to be certain.  Thus we adhere to 
policies - both in regard to debt and all other matters - that 
will allow us to achieve acceptable long-term results under 
extraordinarily adverse conditions, rather than optimal results 
under a normal range of conditions. 

     Good business or investment decisions will eventually 
produce quite satisfactory economic results, with no aid from 
leverage.  Therefore, it seems to us to be both foolish and 
improper to risk what is important (including, necessarily, the 
welfare of innocent bystanders such as policyholders and 
employees) for some extra returns that are relatively 
unimportant.  This view is not the product of either our 
advancing age or prosperity: Our opinions about debt have 
remained constant. 

     However, we are not phobic about borrowing. (We're far from 
believing that there is no fate worse than debt.) We are willing 
to borrow an amount that we believe - on a worst-case basis - 
will pose no threat to Berkshire's well-being.  Analyzing what 
that amount might be, we can look to some important strengths 
that would serve us well if major problems should engulf our 
economy: Berkshire's earnings come from many diverse and well-
entrenched businesses; these businesses seldom require much 
capital investment; what debt we have is structured well; and we 
maintain major holdings of liquid assets.  Clearly, we could be 
comfortable with a higher debt-to-business-value ratio than we 
now have. 

     One further aspect of our debt policy deserves comment: 
Unlike many in the business world, we prefer to finance in 
anticipation of need rather than in reaction to it.  A business 
obtains the best financial results possible by managing both 
sides of its balance sheet well.  This means obtaining the 
highest-possible return on assets and the lowest-possible cost on 
liabilities.  It would be convenient if opportunities for 
intelligent action on both fronts coincided.  However, reason 
tells us that just the opposite is likely to be the case: Tight 
money conditions, which translate into high costs for 
liabilities, will create the best opportunities for acquisitions, 
and cheap money will cause assets to be bid to the sky.  Our 
conclusion:  Action on the liability side should sometimes be 
taken independent of any action on the asset side. 

     Alas, what is "tight" and "cheap" money is far from clear at 
any particular time.  We have no ability to forecast interest 
rates and - maintaining our usual open-minded spirit - believe 
that no one else can.  Therefore, we simply borrow when 
conditions seem non-oppressive and hope that we will later find 
intelligent expansion or acquisition opportunities, which - as we 
have said - are most likely to pop up when conditions in the debt 
market are clearly oppressive.  Our basic principle is that if 
you want to shoot rare, fast-moving elephants, you should always 
carry a loaded gun. 

     Our fund-first, buy-or-expand-later policy almost always 
penalizes near-term earnings.  For example, we are now earning 
about 6 1/2% on the $250 million we recently raised at 10%, a 
disparity that is currently costing us about $160,000 per week.  
This negative spread is unimportant to us and will not cause us 
to stretch for either acquisitions or higher-yielding short-term 
instruments.  If we find the right sort of business elephant 
within the next five years or so, the wait will have been 
worthwhile.
Miscellaneous
We hope to buy more businesses that are similar to the ones 
we have, and we can use some help.  If you have a business that 
fits the following criteria, call me or, preferably, write. 

     Here's what we're looking for: 

     (1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
         earnings), 

     (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
         projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
         "turnaround" situations), 

     (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
         employing little or no debt, 

     (4) management in place (we can't supply it), 

     (5) simple businesses (if there's lots of technology, 
         we won't understand it), 

     (6) an offering price (we don't want to waste our time 
         or that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
         about a transaction when price is unknown). 
 
     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we're interested.  We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive 
as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  We invite 
potential sellers to check us out by contacting people with whom 
we have done business in the past.  For the right business - and 
the right people - we can provide a good home. 
 
     On the other hand, we frequently get approached about 
acquisitions that don't come close to meeting our tests: new 
ventures, turnarounds, auction-like sales, and the ever-popular 
(among brokers) "I'm-sure-something-will-work-out-if-you-people-
get-to-know-each-other." None of these attracts us in the least. 

     Besides being interested in the purchases of entire 
businesses as described above, we are also interested in the 
negotiated purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of 
stock comparable to those we hold in Cap Cities and Salomon.  We 
have a special interest in purchasing convertible preferreds as a 
long-term investment, as we did at Salomon. 

                          *  *  * 

     And now a bit of
deja vu
.  Most of Berkshire's major 
stockholders received their shares at yearend 1969 in a 
liquidating distribution from Buffett Partnership, Ltd.  Some of 
these former partners will remember that in 1962 I encountered 
severe managerial problems at Dempster Mill Manufacturing Co., a 
pump and farm implement manufacturing company that BPL 
controlled. 

     At that time, like now, I went to Charlie with problems that 
were too tough for me to solve.  Charlie suggested the solution 
might lie in a California friend of his, Harry Bottle, whose 
special knack was never forgetting the fundamental.  I met Harry 
in Los Angeles on April 17, 1962, and on April 23 he was in 
Beatrice, Nebraska, running Dempster.  Our problems disappeared 
almost immediately.  In my 1962 annual letter to partners, I 
named Harry "Man of the Year." 

     Fade to 24 years later: The scene is K & W Products, a small 
Berkshire subsidiary that produces automotive compounds.  For 
years K & W did well, but in 1985-86 it stumbled badly, as it 
pursued the unattainable to the neglect of the achievable.  
Charlie, who oversees K & W, knew there was no need to consult 
me.  Instead, he called Harry, now 68 years old, made him CEO, 
and sat back to await the inevitable.  He didn't wait long.  In 
1987 K & W's profits set a record, up more than 300% from 1986.  
And, as profits went up, capital employed went down: K & W's 
investment in accounts receivable and inventories has decreased 
20%. 

     If we run into another managerial problem ten or twenty 
years down the road, you know whose phone will ring. 

                          *  *  * 

     About 97.2% of all eligible shares participated in 
Berkshire's 1987 shareholder-designated contributions program.  