family: the Philadelphia Belles, a young-teen girls basketball team that Tom coaches. The team
had a 62-4 record last year and finished second in the AAU national tournament.
Few property-casualty companies are outstanding businesses. We have far more than our share,
and U.S. Liability adds luster to the collection.

•

Ben Bridge Jeweler was another purchase we made by phone, prior to any face-to-face meeting
between me and the management. Ed Bridge, who with his cousin, Jon, manages this 65-store
West Coast retailer, is a friend of Barnett Helzberg, from whom we bought Helzberg Diamonds
in 1995. Upon learning that the Bridge family proposed to sell its company, Barnett gave
Berkshire a strong recommendation. Ed then called and explained his business to me, also
sending some figures, and we made a deal, again half for cash and half for stock.
Ed and Jon are fourth generation owner-managers of a business started 89 years ago in Seattle.
Both the business and the family— including Herb and Bob, the fathers of Jon and Ed — enjoy
extraordinary reputations. Same-store sales have increased by 9%, 11%, 13%, 10%, 12%, 21%
and 7% over the past seven years, a truly remarkable record.
It was vital to the family that the company operate in the future as in the past. No one wanted
another jewelry chain to come in and decimate the organization with ideas about synergy and
cost saving (which, though they would never work, were certain to be tried). I told Ed and Jon
that they would be in charge, and they knew I could be believed: After all, it’s obvious that your
Chairman would be a disaster at actually running a store or selling jewelry (though there are
members of his family who have earned black belts as purchasers).
In their typically classy way, the Bridges allocated a substantial portion of the proceeds from their
sale to the hundreds of co-workers who had helped the company achieve its success. We’re
proud to be associated with both the family and the company.

•

In July we acquired Justin Industries, the leading maker of Western boots — including the
Justin, Tony Lama, Nocona, and Chippewa brands  and the premier producer of brick in Texas
and five neighboring states.
Here again, our acquisition involved serendipity. On May 4th, I received a fax from Mark Jones,
a stranger to me, proposing that Berkshire join a group to acquire an unnamed company. I faxed
him back, explaining that with rare exceptions we don’t invest with others, but would happily
pay him a commission if he sent details and we later made a purchase. He replied that the
“mystery company” was Justin. I then went to Fort Worth to meet John Roach, chairman of the
company and John Justin, who had built the business and was its major shareholder. Soon after,
we bought Justin for $570 million in cash.
John Justin loved Justin Industries but had been forced to retire because of severe health problems
(which sadly led to his death in late February). John was a class act  as a citizen, businessman
and human being. Fortunately, he had groomed two outstanding managers, Harrold Melton at
Acme and Randy Watson at Justin Boot, each of whom runs his company autonomously.

5

Acme, the larger of the two operations, produces more than one billion bricks per year at its 22
plants, about 11.7% of the industry’s national output. The brick business, however, is necessarily
regional, and in its territory Acme enjoys unquestioned leadership. When Texans are asked to
name a brand of brick, 75% respond Acme, compared to 16% for the runner-up. (Before our
purchase, I couldn’t have named a brand of brick. Could you have?) This brand recognition is
not only due to Acme’s product quality, but also reflects many decades of extraordinary
community service by both the company and John Justin.
I can’t resist pointing out that Berkshire — whose top management has long been mired in the
19th century — is now one of the very few authentic “clicks-and-bricks” businesses around. We
went into 2000 with GEICO doing significant business on the Internet, and then we added Acme.
You can bet this move by Berkshire is making them sweat in Silicon Valley.
•

In June, Bob Shaw, CEO of Shaw Industries, the world’s largest carpet manufacturer, came to
see me with his partner, Julian Saul, and the CEO of a second company with which Shaw was
mulling a merger. The potential partner, however, faced huge asbestos liabilities from past
activities, and any deal depended on these being eliminated through insurance.
The executives visiting me wanted Berkshire to provide a policy that would pay all future
asbestos costs. I explained that though we could write an exceptionally large policy — far larger
than any other insurer would ever think of offering — we would never issue a policy that lacked
a cap.
Bob and Julian decided that if we didn’t want to bet the ranch on the extent of the acquiree’s
liability, neither did they. So their deal died. But my interest in Shaw was sparked, and a few
months later Charlie and I met with Bob to work out a purchase by Berkshire. A key feature of
the deal was that both Bob and Julian were to continue owning at least 5% of Shaw. This leaves
us associated with the best in the business as shown by Bob and Julian’s record: Each built a
large, successful carpet business before joining forces in 1998.
Shaw has annual sales of about $4 billion, and we own 87.3% of the company. Leaving aside our
insurance operation, Shaw is by far our largest business. Now, if people walk all over us, we
won’t mind.

•

In July, Bob Mundheim, a director of Benjamin Moore Paint, called to ask if Berkshire might
be interested in acquiring it. I knew Bob from Salomon, where he was general counsel during
some difficult times, and held him in very high regard. So my answer was “Tell me more.”
In late August, Charlie and I met with Richard Roob and Yvan Dupuy, past and present CEOs of
Benjamin Moore. We liked them; we liked the business; and we made a $1 billion cash offer on
the spot. In October, their board approved the transaction, and we completed it in December.
Benjamin Moore has been making paint for 117 years and has thousands of independent dealers
that are a vital asset to its business. Make sure you specify our product for your next paint job.

•

Finally, in late December, we agreed to buy Johns Manville Corp. for about $1.8 billion. This
company’s incredible odyssey over the last few decades  too multifaceted to be chronicled here
 was shaped by its long history as a manufacturer of asbestos products. The much-publicized
health problems that affected many people exposed to asbestos led to JM’s declaring bankruptcy
in 1982.
Subsequently, the bankruptcy court established a trust for victims, the major asset of which was a
controlling interest in JM. The trust, which sensibly wanted to diversify its assets, agreed last
June to sell the business to an LBO buyer. In the end, though, the LBO group was unable to
obtain financing.

6

Consequently, the deal was called off on Friday, December 8th. The following Monday, Charlie
and I called Bob Felise, chairman of the trust, and made an all-cash offer with no financing
contingencies. The next day the trustees voted tentatively to accept our offer, and a week later we
signed a contract.
JM is the nation’s leading producer of commercial and industrial insulation and also has major
positions in roofing systems and a variety of engineered products. The company’s sales exceed
$2 billion and the business has earned good, if cyclical, returns. Jerry Henry, JM’s CEO, had
announced his retirement plans a year ago, but I’m happy to report that Charlie and I have
convinced him to stick around.
************
Two economic factors probably contributed to the rush of acquisition activity we experienced last year.
First, many managers and owners foresaw near-term slowdowns in their businesses  and, in fact, we purchased
several companies whose earnings will almost certainly decline this year from peaks they reached in 1999 or 2000.
The declines make no difference to us, given that we expect all of our businesses to now and then have ups and
downs. (Only in the sales presentations of investment banks do earnings move forever upward.) We don’t care
about the bumps; what matters are the overall results. But the decisions of other people are sometimes affected by
the near-term outlook, which can both spur sellers and temper the enthusiasm of purchasers who might otherwise
compete with us.
A second factor that helped us in 2000 was that the market for junk bonds dried up as the year progressed.
In the two preceding years, junk bond purchasers had relaxed their standards, buying the obligations of everweaker issuers at inappropriate prices. The effects of this laxity were felt last year in a ballooning of defaults. In