(Compounding’s effects produce the excess over the percentage that would result by simply multiplying 25 x 1.2%.)
In turn, that 34.4% gain will produce a staggering $19,000 increase in real GDP per capita for the next generation.
Were that to be distributed equally, the gain would be $76,000 annually for a family of four. Today’s politicians
need not shed tears for tomorrow’s children.
Indeed, most of today’s children are doing well. All families in my upper middle-class neighborhood
regularly enjoy a living standard better than that achieved by John D. Rockefeller Sr. at the time of my birth. His
unparalleled fortune couldn’t buy what we now take for granted, whether the field is – to name just a few –
transportation, entertainment, communication or medical services. Rockefeller certainly had power and fame; he
could not, however, live as well as my neighbors now do.
Though the pie to be shared by the next generation will be far larger than today’s, how it will be divided
will remain fiercely contentious. Just as is now the case, there will be struggles for the increased output of goods
and services between those people in their productive years and retirees, between the healthy and the infirm,
between the inheritors and the Horatio Algers, between investors and workers and, in particular, between those with
talents that are valued highly by the marketplace and the equally decent hard-working Americans who lack the skills
the market prizes. Clashes of that sort have forever been with us – and will forever continue. Congress will be the
battlefield; money and votes will be the weapons. Lobbying will remain a growth industry.
The good news, however, is that even members of the “losing” sides will almost certainly enjoy – as they
should – far more goods and services in the future than they have in the past. The quality of their increased bounty
will also dramatically improve. Nothing rivals the market system in producing what people want – nor, even more
so, in delivering what people don’t yet know they want. My parents, when young, could not envision a television
set, nor did I, in my 50s, think I needed a personal computer. Both products, once people saw what they could do,
quickly revolutionized their lives. I now spend ten hours a week playing bridge online. And, as I write this letter,
“search” is invaluable to me. (I’m not ready for Tinder, however.)
For 240 years it’s been a terrible mistake to bet against America, and now is no time to start. America’s
golden goose of commerce and innovation will continue to lay more and larger eggs. America’s social security
promises will be honored and perhaps made more generous. And, yes, America’s kids will live far better than their
parents did.
************
Considering this favorable tailwind, Berkshire (and, to be sure, a great many other businesses) will almost
certainly prosper. The managers who succeed Charlie and me will build Berkshire’s per-share intrinsic value by
following our simple blueprint of: (1) constantly improving the basic earning power of our many subsidiaries;
(2) further increasing their earnings through bolt-on acquisitions; (3) benefiting from the growth of our investees;
(4) repurchasing Berkshire shares when they are available at a meaningful discount from intrinsic value; and
(5) making an occasional large acquisition. Management will also try to maximize results for you by rarely, if ever,
issuing Berkshire shares.

8

Intrinsic Business Value
As much as Charlie and I talk about intrinsic business value, we cannot tell you precisely what that number
is for Berkshire shares (nor, in fact, for any other stock). It is possible, however, to make a sensible estimate. In our
2010 annual report we laid out the three elements – one of them qualitative – that we believe are the keys to an
estimation of Berkshire’s intrinsic value. That discussion is reproduced in full on pages 113-114.
Here is an update of the two quantitative factors: In 2015 our per-share cash and investments increased
8.3% to $159,794 (with our Kraft Heinz shares stated at market value), and earnings from our many businesses –
including insurance underwriting income – increased 2.1% to $12,304 per share. We exclude in the second factor
the dividends and interest from the investments we hold because including them would produce a double-counting
of value. In arriving at our earnings figure, we deduct all corporate overhead, interest, depreciation, amortization
and minority interests. Income taxes, though, are not deducted. That is, the earnings are pre-tax.
I used the italics in the paragraph above because we are for the first time including insurance underwriting
income in business earnings. We did not do that when we initially introduced Berkshire’s two quantitative pillars of
valuation because our insurance results were then heavily influenced by catastrophe coverages. If the wind didn’t
blow and the earth didn’t shake, we made large profits. But a mega-catastrophe would produce red ink. In order to
be conservative then in stating our business earnings, we consistently assumed that underwriting would break even
over time and ignored any of its gains or losses in our annual calculation of the second factor of value.
Today, our insurance results are likely to be more stable than was the case a decade or two ago because we
have deemphasized catastrophe coverages and greatly expanded our bread-and-butter lines of business. Last year,
our underwriting income contributed $1,118 per share to the $12,304 per share of earnings referenced in the second
paragraph of this section. Over the past decade, annual underwriting income has averaged $1,434 per share, and we
anticipate being profitable in most years. You should recognize, however, that underwriting in any given year could
well be unprofitable, perhaps substantially so.
Since 1970, our per-share investments have increased at a rate of 18.9% compounded annually, and our
earnings (including the underwriting results in both the initial and terminal year) have grown at a 23.7% clip. It is no
coincidence that the price of Berkshire stock over the ensuing 45 years has increased at a rate very similar to that of
our two measures of value. Charlie and I like to see gains in both sectors, but our main goal is to build operating
earnings.
************
Now, let’s examine the four major sectors of our operations. Each has vastly different balance sheet and
income characteristics from the others. So we’ll present them as four separate businesses, which is how Charlie and
I view them (though there are important and enduring economic advantages to having them all under one roof). Our
intent is to provide you with the information we would wish to have if our positions were reversed, with you being
the reporting manager and we the absentee shareholders. (Don’t get excited; this is not a switch we are considering.)
Insurance
Let’s look first at insurance. The property-casualty (“P/C”) branch of that industry has been the engine that
has propelled our expansion since 1967, when we acquired National Indemnity and its sister company, National
Fire & Marine, for $8.6 million. Today, National Indemnity is the largest property-casualty company in the world,
as measured by net worth. Moreover, its intrinsic value is far in excess of the value at which it is carried on our
books.

9

One reason we were attracted to the P/C business was its financial characteristics: P/C insurers receive
premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases, such as those arising from certain workers’ compensation
accidents, payments can stretch over many decades. This collect-now, pay-later model leaves P/C companies
holding large sums – money we call “float” – that will eventually go to others. Meanwhile, insurers get to invest this
float for their own benefit. Though individual policies and claims come and go, the amount of float an insurer holds
usually remains fairly stable in relation to premium volume. Consequently, as our business grows, so does our float.
And how we have grown, as the following table shows:
Year

Float (in millions)

1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2015

$

39
237
1,632
27,871
65,832
87,722

Further gains in float will be tough to achieve. On the plus side, GEICO and several of our specialized
operations are almost certain to grow at a good clip. National Indemnity’s reinsurance division, however, is party to
a number of run-off contracts whose float drifts downward. If we do in time experience a decline in float, it will be
very gradual – at the outside no more than 3% in any year. The nature of our insurance contracts is such that we can
never be subject to immediate or near-term demands for sums that are of significance to our cash resources. This
structure is by design and is a key component in the strength of Berkshire’s economic fortress. It will never be
compromised.
If our premiums exceed the total of our expenses and eventual losses, we register an underwriting profit
that adds to the investment income our float produces. When such a profit is earned, we enjoy the use of free money
– and, better yet, get paid for holding it.