economy, we will be equipped both financially and emotionally to play offense while others scramble for survival.
That’s what allowed us to invest $15.6 billion in 25 days of panic following the Lehman bankruptcy in 2008.
The Annual Meeting
The annual meeting will be held on Saturday, April 30th. Carrie Kizer from our home office will be the
ringmaster, and her theme this year is Planes, Trains and Automobiles. This gives NetJets, BNSF and BYD a
chance to show off.
As always, the doors will open at the Qwest Center at 7 a.m., and a new Berkshire movie will be shown at
8:30. At 9:30 we will go directly to the question-and-answer period, which (with a break for lunch at the Qwest’s
stands) will last until 3:30. After a short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:45. If you decide
to leave during the day’s question periods, please do so while Charlie is talking. (Act fast; he can be terse.)
The best reason to exit, of course, is to shop. We will help you do that by filling the 194,300-squarefoot hall that adjoins the meeting area with products from dozens of Berkshire subsidiaries. Last year, you did
your part, and most locations racked up record sales. In a nine-hour period, we sold 1,053 pairs of Justin boots,
12,416 pounds of See’s candy, 8,000 Dairy Queen Blizzards® and 8,800 Quikut knives (that’s 16 knives per
minute). But you can do better. Remember: Anyone who says money can’t buy happiness simply hasn’t learned
where to shop.
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a
shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 44 of the 51 jurisdictions in which we
operate. (One supplemental point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as that given
certain groups.) Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you money. For
at least half of you, I believe we can.
Be sure to visit the Bookworm. It will carry more than 60 books and DVDs, including the Chinese
language edition of Poor Charlie’s Almanack, the ever-popular book about my partner. So what if you can’t read
Chinese? Just buy a copy and carry it around; it will make you look urbane and erudite. Should you need to ship
your book purchases, a shipping service will be available nearby.
If you are a big spender – or merely a gawker – visit Elliott Aviation on the east side of the Omaha
airport between noon and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday. There we will have a fleet of NetJets aircraft that will get your
pulse racing. Come by bus; leave by private jet.

24

An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car reservations,
we have again signed up American Express (800-799-6634) to give you special help. Carol Pedersen, who
handles these matters, does a terrific job for us each year, and I thank her for it. Hotel rooms can be hard to find,
but work with Carol and you will get one.
Airlines have often jacked up prices – sometimes dramatically so – for the Berkshire weekend. If you
are coming from far away, compare the cost of flying to Kansas City versus Omaha. The drive is about 2 1⁄ 2 hours
and it may be that you can save significant money, particularly if you had planned to rent a car in Omaha.
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we
will again be having “Berkshire Weekend” discount pricing. Last year the store did $33.3 million of business
during its annual meeting sale, a volume that – as far as I know – exceeds the one-week total of any retail store
anyplace. To obtain the Berkshire discount, you must make your purchases between Tuesday, April 26th and
Monday, May 2nd inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period’s special pricing will even
apply to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against
discounting but which, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you.
We appreciate their cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m.
to 6 p.m. on Sunday. On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., NFM is having a picnic to which you are
all invited.
At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholder-only events. The first will be a cocktail reception
from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Friday, April 29th. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, May 1st , from
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m. On Sunday, around 1 p.m., I will be at Borsheims
with a smile and a shoeshine, selling jewelry just as I sold men’s shirts at J.C. Penney’s 63 years ago.
I’ve told Susan Jacques, Borsheims’ CEO, that I’m still a hotshot salesman. But I see doubt in her eyes.
So cut loose and buy something from me for your wife or sweetheart (presumably the same person). Make me
look good.
We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, therefore,
shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 25th through Saturday, May 7th. During that period,
please identify yourself as a shareholder by presenting your meeting credentials or a brokerage statement that
shows you are a Berkshire shareholder.
On Sunday, in the mall outside of Borsheims, a blindfolded Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion,
will take on all comers – who will have their eyes wide open – in groups of six. Nearby, Norman Beck, a
remarkable magician from Dallas, will bewilder onlookers. Additionally, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon
Osberg, two of the world’s top bridge experts, available to play bridge with our shareholders on Sunday
afternoon.
Gorat’s and Piccolo’s will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 1st.
Both will be serving until 10 p.m., with Gorat’s opening at 1 p.m. and Piccolo’s opening at 4 p.m. These
restaurants are my favorites and – still being a growing boy – I will eat at both of them on Sunday evening.
Remember: To make a reservation at Gorat’s, call 402-551-3733 on April 1st (but not before) and at Piccolo’s
call 402-342-9038.
We will again have the same three financial journalists lead the question-and-answer period, asking
Charlie and me questions that shareholders have submitted to them by e-mail. The journalists and their e-mail
addresses are: Carol Loomis, of Fortune, who may be emailed at cloomis@fortunemail.com; Becky Quick, of
CNBC, at BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com, and Andrew Ross Sorkin, of The New York Times, at
arsorkin@nytimes.com.
From the questions submitted, each journalist will choose the dozen or so he or she decides are the
most interesting and important. The journalists have told me your question has the best chance of being selected
if you keep it concise, avoid sending it in at the last moment, make it Berkshire-related and include no more than
two questions in any email you send them. (In your email, let the journalist know if you would like your name
mentioned if your question is selected.)
Neither Charlie nor I will get so much as a clue about the questions to be asked. We know the
journalists will pick some tough ones, and that’s the way we like it.
25

We will again have a drawing at 8:15 a.m. on Saturday at each of 13 microphones for those
shareholders wishing to ask questions themselves. At the meeting, I will alternate the questions asked by the
journalists with those from the winning shareholders. We hope to answer at least 60 questions. From our
standpoint, the more the better. Our goal, which we pursue both through these annual letters and by our meeting
discussions, is to give you a better understanding of the business that you own.
************
For good reason, I regularly extol the accomplishments of our operating managers. Equally important,
however, are the 20 men and women who work with me at our corporate office (all on one floor, which is the
way we intend to keep it!).
This group efficiently deals with a multitude of SEC and other regulatory requirements, files a 14,097page Federal income tax return along with state and foreign returns, responds to countless shareholder and media
inquiries, gets out the annual report, prepares for the country’s largest annual meeting, coordinates the Board’s
activities – and the list goes on and on.
They handle all of these business tasks cheerfully and with unbelievable efficiency, making my life
easy and joyful. Their efforts go beyond activities strictly related to Berkshire: They deal with 48 universities