intelligent investment moves.  He can be hurt by such volatility 
only if he is forced, by either financial or psychological 
pressures, to sell at untoward times. 

     At Berkshire, we have found little to do in stocks during 
the past few years.  During the break in October, a few stocks 
fell to prices that interested us, but we were unable to make 
meaningful purchases before they rebounded.  At yearend 1987 we 
had no major common stock investments (that is, over $50 million) 
other than those we consider permanent or arbitrage holdings.  
However, Mr. Market will offer us opportunities - you can be sure 
of that - and, when he does, we will be willing and able to 
participate.
o
In the meantime, our major parking place for money is 
medium-term tax-exempt bonds, whose limited virtues I explained 
in last year's annual report.  Though we both bought and sold 
some of these bonds in 1987, our position changed little overall, 
holding around $900 million.  A large portion of our bonds are 
"grandfathered" under the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which means 
they are fully tax-exempt.  Bonds currently purchased by 
insurance companies are not. 

     As an alternative to short-term cash equivalents, our 
medium-term tax-exempts have - so far served us well.  They have 
produced substantial extra income for us and are currently worth 
a bit above our cost.  Regardless of their market price, we are 
ready to dispose of our bonds whenever something better comes 
along.
o
We continue to have an aversion to long-term bonds (and may 
be making a serious mistake by not disliking medium-term bonds as 
well).  Bonds are no better than the currency in which they are 
denominated, and nothing we have seen in the past year - or past 
decade - makes us enthusiastic about the long-term future of U.S. 
currency. 

     Our enormous trade deficit is causing various forms of 
"claim checks" - U.S. government and corporate bonds, bank 
deposits, etc. - to pile up in the hands of foreigners at a 
distressing rate.  By default, our government has adopted an 
approach to its finances patterned on that of Blanche DuBois, of
A Streetcar Named Desire
, who said, "I have always depended on 
the kindness of strangers." In this case, of course, the 
"strangers" are relying on the integrity of our claim checks 
although the plunging dollar has already made that proposition 
expensive for them. 

     The faith that foreigners are placing in us may be 
misfounded.  When the claim checks outstanding grow sufficiently 
numerous and when the issuing party can unilaterally determine 
their purchasing power, the pressure on the issuer to dilute 
their value by inflating the currency becomes almost 
irresistible.  For the debtor government, the weapon of inflation 
is the economic equivalent of the "H" bomb, and that is why very 
few countries have been allowed to swamp the world with debt 
denominated in their own currency.  Our past, relatively good 
record for fiscal integrity has let us break this rule, but the 
generosity accorded us is likely to intensify, rather than 
relieve, the eventual pressure on us to inflate.  If we do 
succumb to that pressure, it won't be just the foreign holders of 
our claim checks who will suffer.  It will be all of us as well. 

     Of course, the U.S. may take steps to stem our trade deficit 
well before our position as a net debtor gets out of hand. (In 
that respect, the falling dollar will help, though unfortunately 
it will hurt in other ways.) Nevertheless, our government's 
behavior in this test of its mettle is apt to be consistent with 
its Scarlett O'Hara approach generally: "I'll think about it 
tomorrow." And, almost inevitably, procrastination in facing up 
to fiscal problems will have inflationary consequences. 
 
     Both the timing and the sweep of those consequences are 
unpredictable.  But our inability to quantify or time the risk 
does not mean we should ignore it.  While recognizing the 
possibility that we may be wrong and that present interest rates 
may adequately compensate for the inflationary risk, we retain a 
general fear of long-term bonds. 

     We are, however, willing to invest a moderate portion of our 
funds in this category if we think we have a significant edge in 
a specific security.  That willingness explains our holdings of 
the Washington Public Power Supply Systems #1, #2 and #3 issues, 
discussed in our 1984 report.  We added to our WPPSS position 
during 1987.  At yearend, we had holdings with an amortized cost 
of $240 million and a market value of $316 million, paying us 
tax-exempt income of $34 million annually.
o
We continued to do well in arbitrage last year, though - or 
perhaps because - we operated on a very limited scale.  We enter 
into only a few arbitrage commitments each year and restrict 
ourselves to large transactions that have been publicly 
announced.  We do not participate in situations in which green-
mailers are attempting to put a target company "in play." 

     We have practiced arbitrage on an opportunistic basis for 
decades and, to date, our results have been quite good.  Though 
we've never made an exact calculation, I believe that overall we 
have averaged annual pre-tax returns of at least 25% from 
arbitrage.  I'm quite sure we did better than that in 1987.  But 
it should be emphasized that a really bad experience or two - 
such as many arbitrage operations suffered in late 1987 - could 
change the figures dramatically. 

     Our only $50 million-plus arbitrage position at yearend 1987 
was 1,096,200 shares of Allegis, with a cost of $76 million and a 
market value of $78 million.
o
We had two other large holdings at yearend that do not fit 
precisely into any of our five categories.  One was various 
Texaco, Inc. bonds with short maturities, all purchased after 
Texaco went into bankruptcy.  Were it not for the extraordinarily 
strong capital position of our insurance companies, it would be 
inappropriate for us to buy defaulted bonds.  At prices 
prevailing after Texaco's bankruptcy filing, however, we regarded 
these issues as by far the most attractive bond investment 
available to us. 

     On a worst-case basis with respect to the Pennzoil 
litigation, we felt the bonds were likely to be worth about what 
we paid for them.  Given a sensible settlement, which seemed 
likely, we expected the bonds to be worth considerably more.  At 
yearend our Texaco bonds were carried on our books at $104 
million and had a market value of $119 million. 

     By far our largest - and most publicized - investment in 
1987 was a $700 million purchase of Salomon Inc 9% preferred 
stock.  This preferred is convertible after three years into 
Salomon common stock at $38 per share and, if not converted, will 
be redeemed ratably over five years beginning October 31, 1995.  
From most standpoints, this commitment fits into the medium-term 
fixed-income securities category.  In addition, we have an 
interesting conversion possibility. 

     We, of course, have no special insights regarding the 
direction or future profitability of investment banking.  By 
their nature, the economics of this industry are far less 
predictable than those of most other industries in which we have 
major Commitments.  This unpredictability is one of the reasons 
why our participation is in the form of a convertible preferred. 

     What we do have a strong feeling about is the ability and 
integrity of John Gutfreund, CEO of Salomon Inc.  Charlie and I 
like, admire and trust John.  We first got to know him in 1976 
when he played a key role in GEICO's escape from near-bankruptcy.  
Several times since, we have seen John steer clients away from 
transactions that would have been unwise, but that the client 
clearly wanted to make - even though his advice provided no fee 
to Salomon and acquiescence would have delivered a large fee.  
Such service-above-self behavior is far from automatic in Wall 
Street. 

     For the reasons Charlie outlines on page 50, at yearend we 
valued our Salomon investment at 98% of par, $14 million less 
than our cost.  However, we believe there is a reasonable 
likelihood that a leading, high-quality capital-raising and 
market-making operation can average good returns on equity.  If 
so, our conversion right will eventually prove to be valuable. 
 
     Two further comments about our investments in marketable 
securities are appropriate.  First, we give you our usual 
warning: Our holdings have changed since yearend and will 
continue to do so without notice. 

     The second comment is related: During 1987, as in some 
earlier years, there was speculation in the press from time to 
time about our purchase or sale of various securities.  These 
stories were sometimes true, sometimes partially true, and other 
times completely untrue.  Interestingly, there has been no 
correlation between the size and prestige of the publication and 
the accuracy of the report.  One dead-wrong rumor was given 
considerable prominence by a major national magazine, and another 
leading publication misled its readers by writing about an 
arbitrage position as if it were a long-term investment 
commitment. (In not naming names, I am observing the old warning 