received huge payouts on the upside and who then, when bad results occurred, have walked away rich, with their
limited partners losing back their earlier gains. Sometimes these same general partners thereafter quickly started
another fund so that they could immediately participate in future profits without having to overcome their past
losses. Investors who put money with such managers should be labeled patsies, not partners.
As long as I am CEO, I will continue to manage the great majority of Berkshire’s holdings, both bonds
and equities. Todd initially will manage funds in the range of one to three billion dollars, an amount he can reset
annually. His focus will be equities but he is not restricted to that form of investment. (Fund consultants like to
require style boxes such as “long-short,” “macro,” “international equities.” At Berkshire our only style box is
“smart.”)
Over time, we may add one or two investment managers if we find the right individuals. Should we do
that, we will probably have 80% of each manager’s performance compensation be dependent on his or her own
portfolio and 20% on that of the other manager(s). We want a compensation system that pays off big for
individual success but that also fosters cooperation, not competition.
When Charlie and I are no longer around, our investment manager(s) will have responsibility for the
entire portfolio in a manner then set by the CEO and Board of Directors. Because good investors bring a useful
perspective to the purchase of businesses, we would expect them to be consulted – but not to have a vote – on the
wisdom of possible acquisitions. In the end, of course, the Board will make the call on any major acquisition.
One footnote: When we issued a press release about Todd’s joining us, a number of commentators
pointed out that he was “little-known” and expressed puzzlement that we didn’t seek a “big-name.” I wonder
how many of them would have known of Lou in 1979, Ajit in 1985, or, for that matter, Charlie in 1959. Our goal
was to find a 2-year-old Secretariat, not a 10-year-old Seabiscuit. (Whoops – that may not be the smartest
metaphor for an 80-year-old CEO to use.)
Derivatives
Two years ago, in the 2008 Annual Report, I told you that Berkshire was a party to 251 derivatives
contracts (other than those used for operations at our subsidiaries, such as MidAmerican, and the few left over at
Gen Re). Today, the comparable number is 203, a figure reflecting both a few additions to our portfolio and the
unwinding or expiration of some contracts.
Our continuing positions, all of which I am personally responsible for, fall largely into two categories.
We view both categories as engaging us in insurance-like activities in which we receive premiums for assuming
risks that others wish to shed. Indeed, the thought processes we employ in these derivatives transactions are
identical to those we use in our insurance business. You should also understand that we get paid up-front when
we enter into the contracts and therefore run no counterparty risk. That’s important.
Our first category of derivatives consists of a number of contracts, written in 2004-2008, that required
payments by us if there were bond defaults by companies included in certain high-yield indices. With minor
exceptions, we were exposed to these risks for five years, with each contract covering 100 companies.
In aggregate, we received premiums of $3.4 billion for these contracts. When I originally told you in
our 2007 Annual Report about them, I said that I expected the contracts would deliver us an “underwriting
profit,” meaning that our losses would be less than the premiums we received. In addition, I said we would
benefit from the use of float.
19

Subsequently, as you know too well, we encountered both a financial panic and a severe recession. A
number of the companies in the high-yield indices failed, which required us to pay losses of $2.5 billion. Today,
however, our exposure is largely behind us because most of our higher-risk contracts have expired. Consequently, it
appears almost certain that we will earn an underwriting profit as we originally anticipated. In addition, we have had
the use of interest-free float that averaged about $2 billion over the life of the contracts. In short, we charged the
right premium, and that protected us when business conditions turned terrible three years ago.
Our other large derivatives position – whose contracts go by the name of “equity puts” – involves
insurance we wrote for parties wishing to protect themselves against a possible decline in equity prices in the
U.S., U.K., Europe and Japan. These contracts are tied to various equity indices, such as the S&P 500 in the U.S.
and the FTSE 100 in the U.K. In the 2004-2008 period, we received $4.8 billion of premiums for 47 of these
contracts, most of which ran for 15 years. On these contracts, only the price of the indices on the termination date
counts: No payments can be required before then.
As a first step in updating you about these contracts, I can report that late in 2010, at the instigation of
our counterparty, we unwound eight contracts, all of them due between 2021 and 2028. We had originally
received $647 million in premiums for these contracts, and the unwinding required us to pay $425 million.
Consequently, we realized a gain of $222 million and also had the interest-free and unrestricted use of that
$647 million for about three years.
Those 2010 transactions left us with 39 equity put contracts remaining on our books at yearend. On
these, at their initiation, we received premiums of $4.2 billion.
The future of these contracts is, of course, uncertain. But here is one perspective on them. If the prices
of the relevant indices are the same at the contract expiration dates as these prices were on December 31, 2010 –
and foreign exchange rates are unchanged – we would owe $3.8 billion on expirations occurring from 2018 to
2026. You can call this amount “settlement value.”
On our yearend balance sheet, however, we carry the liability for those remaining equity puts at
$6.7 billion. In other words, if the prices of the relevant indices remain unchanged from that date, we will record
a $2.9 billion gain in the years to come, that being the difference between the liability figure of $6.7 billion and
the settlement value of $3.8 billion. I believe that equity prices will very likely increase and that our liability will
fall significantly between now and settlement date. If so, our gain from this point will be even greater. But that,
of course, is far from a sure thing.
What is sure is that we will have the use of our remaining “float” of $4.2 billion for an average of about
10 more years. (Neither this float nor that arising from the high-yield contracts is included in the insurance float
figure of $66 billion.) Since money is fungible, think of a portion of these funds as contributing to the purchase
of BNSF.
As I have told you before, almost all of our derivatives contracts are free of any obligation to post
collateral – a fact that cut the premiums we could otherwise have charged. But that fact also left us feeling
comfortable during the financial crisis, allowing us in those days to commit to some advantageous purchases.
Foregoing some additional derivatives premiums proved to be well worth it.
On Reporting and Misreporting: The Numbers That Count and Those That Don’t
Earlier in this letter, I pointed out some numbers that Charlie and I find useful in valuing Berkshire and
measuring its progress.
Let’s focus here on a number we omitted, but which many in the media feature above all others: net
income. Important though that number may be at most companies, it is almost always meaningless at Berkshire.
Regardless of how our businesses might be doing, Charlie and I could – quite legally – cause net income in any
given period to be almost any number we would like.
20

We have that flexibility because realized gains or losses on investments go into the net income figure,
whereas unrealized gains (and, in most cases, losses) are excluded. For example, imagine that Berkshire had a
$10 billion increase in unrealized gains in a given year and concurrently had $1 billion of realized losses. Our net
income – which would count only the loss – would be reported as less than our operating income. If we had
meanwhile realized gains in the previous year, headlines might proclaim that our earnings were down X% when
in reality our business might be much improved.
If we really thought net income important, we could regularly feed realized gains into it simply because
we have a huge amount of unrealized gains upon which to draw. Rest assured, though, that Charlie and I have
never sold a security because of the effect a sale would have on the net income we were soon to report. We both