profit from them.

     We expect that undistributed earnings from such companies 
will produce full value (subject to tax when realized) for 
Berkshire and its shareholders.  If they don’t, we have made 
mistakes as to either: (1) the management we have elected to 
join; (2) the future economics of the business; or (3) the price 
we have paid.

     We have made plenty of such mistakes - both in the purchase 
of non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses.  
Category (2) miscalculations are the most common.  Of course, it 
is necessary to dig deep into our history to find illustrations 
of such mistakes - sometimes as deep as two or three months back.  
For example, last year your Chairman volunteered his expert 
opinion on the rosy future of the aluminum business.  Several 
minor adjustments to that opinion - now aggregating approximately 
180 degrees - have since been required.

     For personal as well as more objective reasons, however, we 
generally have been able to correct such mistakes far more 
quickly in the case of non-controlled businesses (marketable 
securities) than in the case of controlled subsidiaries.  Lack of 
control, in effect, often has turned out to be an economic plus.

     As we mentioned last year, the magnitude of our non-recorded 
“ownership” earnings has grown to the point where their total is 
greater than our reported operating earnings.  We expect this 
situation will continue.  In just four ownership positions in 
this category - GEICO Corporation, General Foods Corporation, R. 
J. Reynolds Industries, Inc. and The Washington Post Company - 
our share of undistributed and therefore unrecorded earnings 
probably will total well over $35 million in 1982.  The 
accounting rules that entirely ignore these undistributed 
earnings diminish the utility of our annual return on equity 
calculation, or any other single year measure of economic 
performance.
Long-Term Corporate Performance
In measuring long-term economic performance, equities held 
by our insurance subsidiaries are valued at market subject to a 
charge reflecting the amount of taxes that would have to be paid 
if unrealized gains were actually realized.  If we are correct in 
the premise stressed in the preceding section of this report, our 
unreported ownership earnings will find their way, irregularly 
but inevitably, into our net worth.  To date, this has been the 
case.

     An even purer calculation of performance would involve a 
valuation of bonds and non-insurance held equities at market.  
However, GAAP accounting does not prescribe this procedure, and 
the added purity would change results only very slightly.  Should 
any valuation difference widen to significant proportions, as it 
has at most major insurance companies, we will report its effect 
to you.

     On a GAAP basis, during the present management’s term of 
seventeen years, book value has increased from $19.46 per share 
to $526.02 per share, or 21.1% compounded annually.  This rate of 
return number is highly likely to drift downward in future years.  
We hope, however, that it can be maintained significantly above 
the rate of return achieved by the average large American 
corporation.

     Over half of the large gain in Berkshire’s net worth during 
1981 - it totaled $124 million, or about 31% - resulted from the 
market performance of a single investment, GEICO Corporation.  In 
aggregate, our market gain from securities during the year 
considerably outstripped the gain in underlying business values.  
Such market variations will not always be on the pleasant side.

     In past reports we have explained how inflation has caused 
our apparently satisfactory long-term corporate performance to be 
illusory as a measure of true investment results for our owners.  
We applaud the efforts of Federal Reserve Chairman Volcker and 
note the currently more moderate increases in various price 
indices.  Nevertheless, our views regarding long-term 
inflationary trends are as negative as ever.  Like virginity, a 
stable price level seems capable of maintenance, but not of 
restoration.

     Despite the overriding importance of inflation in the 
investment equation, we will not punish you further with another 
full recital of our views; inflation itself will be punishment 
enough. (Copies of previous discussions are available for 
masochists.) But, because of the unrelenting destruction of 
currency values, our corporate efforts will continue to do a much 
better job of filling your wallet than of filling your stomach.
Equity Value-Added
An additional factor should further subdue any residual 
enthusiasm you may retain regarding our long-term rate of return.  
The economic case justifying equity investment is that, in 
aggregate, additional earnings above passive investment returns - 
interest on fixed-income securities - will be derived through the 
employment of managerial and entrepreneurial skills in 
conjunction with that equity capital.  Furthermore, the case says 
that since the equity capital position is associated with greater 
risk than passive forms of investment, it is “entitled” to higher 
returns.  A “value-added” bonus from equity capital seems natural 
and certain.

     But is it?  Several decades back, a return on equity of as 
little as 10% enabled a corporation to be classified as a “good” 
business - i.e., one in which a dollar reinvested in the business 
logically could be expected to be valued by the market at more 
than one hundred cents.  For, with long-term taxable bonds 
yielding 5% and long-term tax-exempt bonds 3%, a business 
operation that could utilize equity capital at 10% clearly was 
worth some premium to investors over the equity capital employed.  
That was true even though a combination of taxes on dividends and 
on capital gains would reduce the 10% earned by the corporation 
to perhaps 6%-8% in the hands of the individual investor.

     Investment markets recognized this truth.  During that 
earlier period, American business earned an average of 11% or so 
on equity capital employed and stocks, in aggregate, sold at 
valuations far above that equity capital (book value), averaging 
over 150 cents on the dollar.  Most businesses were “good” 
businesses because they earned far more than their keep (the 
return on long-term passive money).  The value-added produced by 
equity investment, in aggregate, was substantial.

     That day is gone.  But the lessons learned during its 
existence are difficult to discard.  While investors and managers 
must place their feet in the future, their memories and nervous 
systems often remain plugged into the past.  It is much easier 
for investors to utilize historic p/e ratios or for managers to 
utilize historic business valuation yardsticks than it is for 
either group to rethink their premises daily.  When change is 
slow, constant rethinking is actually undesirable; it achieves 
little and slows response time.  But when change is great, 
yesterday’s assumptions can be retained only at great cost.  And 
the pace of economic change has become breathtaking.

     During the past year, long-term taxable bond yields exceeded 
16% and long-term tax-exempts 14%.  The total return achieved 
from such tax-exempts, of course, goes directly into the pocket 
of the individual owner.  Meanwhile, American business is 
producing earnings of only about 14% on equity.  And this 14% 
will be substantially reduced by taxation before it can be banked 
by the individual owner.  The extent of such shrinkage depends 
upon the dividend policy of the corporation and the tax rates 
applicable to the investor.

     Thus,
with interest rates on passive investments at late 
1981 levels,
a typical American business is no longer worth one 
hundred cents on the dollar to owners who are individuals. (If 
the business is owned by pension funds or other tax-exempt 
investors, the arithmetic, although still unenticing, changes 
substantially for the better.) Assume an investor in a 50% tax 
bracket; if our typical company pays out all earnings, the income 
return to the investor will be equivalent to that from a 7% tax-
exempt bond.  And, if conditions persist - if all earnings are 
paid out and return on equity stays at 14% - the 7% tax-exempt 
equivalent to the higher-bracket individual investor is just as 
frozen as is the coupon on a tax-exempt bond.  Such a perpetual 
7% tax-exempt bond might be worth fifty cents on the dollar as 
this is written.

     If, on the other hand, all earnings of our typical American 
business are retained and return on equity again remains 
constant, earnings will grow at 14% per year.  If the p/e ratio 
remains constant, the price of our typical stock will also grow 
at 14% per year.  But that 14% is not yet in the pocket of the 
shareholder.  Putting it there will require the payment of a 
capital gains tax, presently assessed at a maximum rate of 20%.  
This net return, of course, works out to a poorer rate of return 
than the currently available passive after-tax rate.

     Unless passive rates fall, companies achieving 14% per year 
gains in earnings per share while paying no cash dividend are an 
economic failure for their individual shareholders.  The returns 
from passive capital outstrip the returns from active capital.  
This is an unpleasant fact for both investors and corporate 
managers and, therefore, one they may wish to ignore.  But facts 
do not cease to exist, either because they are unpleasant or 
because they are ignored.

     Most American businesses pay out a significant portion of 
their earnings and thus fall between the two examples.  And most 