---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2023
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2023ar/2023ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 126 - 649
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Berkshire has more than three million shareholder accounts. I am charged with writing a
letter every year that will be useful to this diverse and ever-changing group of owners, many of
whom wish to learn more about their investment.
Charlie Munger, for decades my partner in managing Berkshire, viewed this obligation
identically and would expect me to communicate with you this year in the regular manner. He and
I were of one mind regarding our responsibilities to Berkshire shareholders.
************
Writers find it useful to picture the reader they seek, and often they are hoping to attract a
mass audience. At Berkshire, we have a more limited target: investors who trust Berkshire with
their savings without any expectation of resale (resembling in attitude people who save in order to
buy a farm or rental property rather than people who prefer using their excess funds to purchase
lottery tickets or “hot” stocks).
Over the years, Berkshire has attracted an unusual number of such “lifetime” shareholders
and their heirs. We cherish their presence and believe they are entitled to hear every year both the
good and bad news, delivered directly from their CEO and not from an investor-relations officer
or communications consultant forever serving up optimism and syrupy mush.
In visualizing the owners that Berkshire seeks, I am lucky to have the perfect mental model,
my sister, Bertie. Let me introduce her.
For openers, Bertie is smart, wise and likes to challenge my thinking. We have never,
however, had a shouting match or anything close to a ruptured relationship. We never will.
Furthermore, Bertie, and her three daughters as well, have a large portion of their savings
in Berkshire shares. Their ownership spans decades, and every year Bertie will read what I have
to say. My job is to anticipate her questions and give her honest answers.

3

Bertie, like most of you, understands many accounting terms, but she is not ready for a
CPA exam. She follows business news – reading four newspapers daily – but doesn’t consider
herself an economic expert. She is sensible – very sensible – instinctively knowing that pundits
should always be ignored. After all, if she could reliably predict tomorrow’s winners, would she
freely share her valuable insights and thereby increase competitive buying? That would be like
finding gold and then handing a map to the neighbors showing its location.
Bertie understands the power – for good or bad – of incentives, the weaknesses of humans,
the “tells” that can be recognized when observing human behavior. She knows who is “selling”
and who can be trusted. In short, she is nobody’s fool.
So, what would interest Bertie this year?
Operating Results, Fact and Fiction
Let’s begin with the numbers. The official annual report begins on K-1 and extends for 124
pages. It is filled with a vast amount of information – some important, some trivial.
Among its disclosures many owners, along with financial reporters, will focus on page
K-72. There, they will find the proverbial “bottom line” labeled “Net earnings (loss).” The
numbers read $90 billion for 2021, ($23 billion) for 2022 and $96 billion for 2023.
What in the world is going on?
You seek guidance and are told that the procedures for calculating these “earnings” are
promulgated by a sober and credentialed Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”),
mandated by a dedicated and hard-working Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and
audited by the world-class professionals at Deloitte & Touche (“D&T”). On page K-67, D&T pulls
no punches: “In our opinion, the financial statements . . . . . present fairly, in all material respects
(italics mine), the financial position of the Company . . . . . and the results of its operations . . . . .
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2023 . . . . .”
So sanctified, this worse-than-useless “net income” figure quickly gets transmitted
throughout the world via the internet and media. All parties believe they have done their job – and,
legally, they have.
We, however, are left uncomfortable. At Berkshire, our view is that “earnings” should be a
sensible concept that Bertie will find somewhat useful – but only as a starting point – in
evaluating a business. Accordingly, Berkshire also reports to Bertie and you what we call
“operating earnings.” Here is the story they tell: $27.6 billion for 2021; $30.9 billion for 2022 and
$37.4 billion for 2023.

4

The primary difference between the mandated figures and the ones Berkshire prefers is that
we exclude unrealized capital gains or losses that at times can exceed $5 billion a day. Ironically,
our preference was pretty much the rule until 2018, when the “improvement” was mandated.
Galileo’s experience, several centuries ago, should have taught us not to mess with mandates from
on high. But, at Berkshire, we can be stubborn.
************
Make no mistake about the significance of capital gains: I expect them to be a very
important component of Berkshire’s value accretion during the decades ahead. Why else would
we commit huge dollar amounts of your money (and Bertie’s) to marketable equities just as I have
been doing with my own funds throughout my investing lifetime?
I can’t remember a period since March 11, 1942 – the date of my first stock purchase – that
I have not had a majority of my net worth in equities, U.S.-based equities. And so far, so good.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell below 100 on that fateful day in 1942 when I “pulled the
trigger.” I was down about $5 by the time school was out. Soon, things turned around and now that
index hovers around 38,000. America has been a terrific country for investors. All they have
needed to do is sit quietly, listening to no one.
It is more than silly, however, to make judgments about Berkshire’s investment value based
on “earnings” that incorporate the capricious day-by-day and, yes, even year-by-year movements
of the stock market. As Ben Graham taught me, “In the short run the market acts as a voting
machine; in the long run it becomes a weighing machine.”
What We Do
Our goal at Berkshire is simple: We want to own either all or a portion of businesses that
enjoy good economics that are fundamental and enduring. Within capitalism, some businesses will
flourish for a very long time while others will prove to be sinkholes. It’s harder than you would
think to predict which will be the winners and losers. And those who tell you they know the answer
are usually either self-delusional or snake-oil salesmen.
At Berkshire, we particularly favor the rare enterprise that can deploy additional capital at
high returns in the future. Owning only one of these companies – and simply sitting tight – can
deliver wealth almost beyond measure. Even heirs to such a holding can – ugh! – sometimes live
a lifetime of leisure.
We also hope these favored businesses are run by able and trustworthy managers, though
that is a more difficult judgment to make, however, and Berkshire has had its share
of disappointments.

5

In 1863, Hugh McCulloch, the first Comptroller of the United States, sent a letter to all
national banks. His instructions included this warning: “Never deal with a rascal under the
expectation that you can prevent him from cheating you.” Many bankers who thought they could
“manage” the rascal problem have learned the wisdom of Mr. McCulloch’s advice – and I have as
well. People are not that easy to read. Sincerity and empathy can easily be faked. That is as true
now as it was in 1863.
This combination of the two necessities I’ve described for acquiring businesses has for
long been our goal in purchases and, for a while, we had an abundance of candidates to evaluate.
If I missed one – and I missed plenty – another always came along.
Those days are long behind us; size did us in, though increased competition for purchases
was also a factor.
Berkshire now has – by far – the largest GAAP net worth recorded by any American
business. Record operating income and a strong stock market led to a yearend figure of $561
billion. The total GAAP net worth for the other 499 S&P companies – a who’s who of American
business – was $8.9 trillion in 2022. (The 2023 number for the S&P has not yet been tallied but is
unlikely to materially exceed $9.5 trillion.)
By this measure, Berkshire now occupies nearly 6% of the universe in which it operates.
Doubling our huge base is simply not possible within, say, a five-year period, particularly because
we are highly averse to issuing shares (an act that immediately juices net worth).
There remain only a handful of companies in this country capable of truly moving the
needle at Berkshire, and they have been endlessly picked over by us and by others. Some we can