both the intensity with which an investor thinks about a business 
and the comfort-level he must feel with its economic characteristics 
before buying into it.  In stating this opinion, we define risk, 
using dictionary terms, as "the possibility of loss or injury."

     Academics, however, like to define investment "risk" 
differently, averring that it is the relative volatility of a stock 
or portfolio of stocks - that is, their volatility as compared to 
that of a large universe of stocks.  Employing data bases and 
statistical skills, these academics compute with precision the 
"beta" of a stock - its relative volatility in the past - and then 
build arcane investment and capital-allocation theories around this 
calculation.  In their hunger for a single statistic to measure 
risk, however, they forget a fundamental principle:  It is better 
to be approximately right than precisely wrong.

     For owners of a business - and that's the way we think of 
shareholders - the academics' definition of risk is far off the 
mark, so much so that it produces absurdities.  For example, under 
beta-based theory, a stock that has dropped very sharply compared 
to the market - as had Washington Post when we bought it in 1973 - 
becomes "riskier" at the lower price than it was at the higher 
price.  Would that description have then made any sense to someone 
who was offered the entire company at a vastly-reduced price?

     In fact, the true investor
welcomes
volatility.  Ben Graham 
explained why in Chapter 8 of
The Intelligent Investor.
There he 
introduced "Mr. Market," an obliging fellow who shows up every day 
to either buy from you or sell to you, whichever you wish.  The 
more manic-depressive this chap is, the greater the opportunities 
available to the investor.  That's true because a wildly 
fluctuating market means that irrationally low prices will 
periodically be attached to solid businesses.  It is impossible to 
see how the availability of such prices can be thought of as 
increasing the hazards for an investor who is totally free to 
either ignore the market or exploit its folly.

     In assessing risk, a beta purist will disdain examining what a 
company produces, what its competitors are doing, or how much 
borrowed money the business employs.  He may even prefer not to 
know the company's name.  What he treasures is the price history of 
its stock.  In contrast, we'll happily forgo knowing the price 
history and instead will seek whatever information will further our 
understanding of the company's business.  After we buy a stock, 
consequently, we would not be disturbed if markets closed for a 
year or two.  We don't need a daily quote on our 100% position in 
See's or H. H. Brown to validate our well-being.  Why, then, should 
we need a quote on our 7% interest in Coke?

     In our opinion, the real risk that an investor must assess is 
whether his aggregate after-tax receipts from an investment 
(including those he receives on sale) will, over his prospective 
holding period, give him at least as much purchasing power as he 
had to begin with, plus a modest rate of interest on that initial 
stake.  Though this risk cannot be calculated with engineering 
precision, it can in some cases be judged with a degree of accuracy 
that is useful.  The primary factors bearing upon this evaluation 
are:

     1) The certainty with which the long-term economic 
        characteristics of the business can be evaluated;

     2) The certainty with which management can be evaluated, 
        both as to its ability to realize the full potential of 
        the business and to wisely employ its cash flows;

     3) The certainty with which management can be counted on 
        to channel the rewards from the business to the 
        shareholders rather than to itself;

     4) The purchase price of the business;

     5) The levels of taxation and inflation that will be 
        experienced and that will determine the degree by which 
        an investor's purchasing-power return is reduced from his 
        gross return.

     These factors will probably strike many analysts as unbearably 
fuzzy, since they cannot be extracted from a data base of any kind. 
But the difficulty of precisely quantifying these matters does not 
negate their importance nor is it insuperable.  Just as Justice 
Stewart found it impossible to formulate a test for obscenity but 
nevertheless asserted, "I know it when I see it," so also can 
investors - in an inexact but useful way - "see" the risks inherent 
in certain investments without reference to complex equations or 
price histories.

     Is it really so difficult to conclude that Coca-Cola and 
Gillette possess far less business risk over the long term than, 
say,
any
computer company or retailer?  Worldwide, Coke sells about 
44% of all soft drinks, and Gillette has more than a 60% share (in 
value) of the blade market.  Leaving aside chewing gum, in which 
Wrigley is dominant, I know of no other significant businesses in 
which the leading company has long enjoyed such global power.

     Moreover, both Coke and Gillette have actually increased their 
worldwide shares of market in recent years.  The might of their 
brand names, the attributes of their products, and the strength of 
their distribution systems give them an enormous competitive 
advantage, setting up a protective moat around their economic 
castles.  The average company, in contrast, does battle daily 
without any such means of protection.  As Peter Lynch says, stocks 
of companies selling commodity-like products should come with a 
warning label:  "Competition may prove hazardous to human wealth."

	The competitive strengths of a Coke or Gillette are obvious to 
even the casual observer of business.  Yet the beta of their stocks 
is similar to that of a great many run-of-the-mill companies who 
possess little or no competitive advantage.  Should we conclude 
from this similarity that the competitive strength of Coke and 
Gillette gains them nothing when business risk is being measured?  
Or should we conclude that the risk in owning a piece of a company 
- its stock - is somehow divorced from the long-term risk inherent 
in its business operations?  We believe neither conclusion makes 
sense and that equating beta with investment risk also makes no 
sense.

     The theoretician bred on beta has no mechanism for 
differentiating the risk inherent in, say, a single-product toy 
company selling pet rocks or hula hoops from that of another toy 
company whose sole product is Monopoly or Barbie.  But it's quite 
possible for ordinary investors to make such distinctions if they 
have a reasonable understanding of consumer behavior and the 
factors that create long-term competitive strength or weakness.  
Obviously, every investor will make mistakes.  But by confining 
himself to a relatively few, easy-to-understand cases, a reasonably 
intelligent, informed and diligent person can judge investment 
risks with a useful degree of accuracy.

     In many industries, of course, Charlie and I can't determine 
whether we are dealing with a "pet rock" or a "Barbie."  We 
couldn't solve this problem, moreover, even if we were to spend 
years intensely studying those industries.  Sometimes our own 
intellectual shortcomings would stand in the way of understanding, 
and in other cases the nature of the industry would be the 
roadblock.  For example, a business that must deal with fast-moving 
technology is not going to lend itself to reliable evaluations of 
its long-term economics.  Did we foresee thirty years ago what 
would transpire in the television-manufacturing or computer 
industries?  Of course not.  (Nor did most of the investors and 
corporate managers who enthusiastically entered those industries.) 
Why, then, should Charlie and I now think we can predict the 
future of other rapidly-evolving businesses?  We'll stick instead 
with the easy cases.  Why search for a needle buried in a haystack 
when one is sitting in plain sight?

     Of course, some investment strategies - for instance, our 
efforts in arbitrage over the years - require wide diversification. 
If significant risk exists in a single transaction, overall risk 
should be reduced by making that purchase one of many mutually-
independent commitments.  Thus, you may consciously purchase a 
risky investment - one that indeed has a significant possibility of 
causing loss or injury - if you believe that your gain, weighted 
for probabilities, considerably exceeds your loss, comparably 
weighted, and if you can commit to a number of similar, but 
unrelated opportunities.  Most venture capitalists employ this 
strategy.  Should you choose to pursue this course, you should 
adopt the outlook of the casino that owns a roulette wheel, which 
will want to see lots of action because it is favored by 
probabilities, but will refuse to accept a single, huge bet.

     Another situation requiring wide diversification occurs when 
an investor who does not understand the economics of specific 
businesses nevertheless believes it in his interest to be a long-
term owner of American industry.  That investor should both own a 
large number of equities and space out his purchases.  By 
periodically investing in an index fund, for example, the know-
nothing investor can actually out-perform most investment 
professionals.  Paradoxically, when "dumb" money acknowledges its 
limitations, it ceases to be dumb.

     On the other hand, if you are a know-