---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2022
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2022ar/2022ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 237 - 550
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Charlie Munger, my long-time partner, and I have the job of managing the savings of a
great number of individuals. We are grateful for their enduring trust, a relationship that often spans
much of their adult lifetime. It is those dedicated savers that are forefront in my mind as I write
this letter.
A common belief is that people choose to save when young, expecting thereby to maintain
their living standards after retirement. Any assets that remain at death, this theory says, will usually
be left to their families or, possibly, to friends and philanthropy.
Our experience has differed. We believe Berkshire’s individual holders largely to be of the
once-a-saver, always-a-saver variety. Though these people live well, they eventually dispense
most of their funds to philanthropic organizations. These, in turn, redistribute the funds by
expenditures intended to improve the lives of a great many people who are unrelated to the original
benefactor. Sometimes, the results have been spectacular.
The disposition of money unmasks humans. Charlie and I watch with pleasure the vast flow
of Berkshire-generated funds to public needs and, alongside, the infrequency with which our
shareholders opt for look-at-me assets and dynasty-building.
Who wouldn’t enjoy working for shareholders like ours?
What We Do
Charlie and I allocate your savings at Berkshire between two related forms of ownership.
First, we invest in businesses that we control, usually buying 100% of each. Berkshire directs
capital allocation at these subsidiaries and selects the CEOs who make day-by-day operating
decisions. When large enterprises are being managed, both trust and rules are essential. Berkshire
emphasizes the former to an unusual – some would say extreme – degree. Disappointments are
inevitable. We are understanding about business mistakes; our tolerance for personal misconduct
is zero.
In our second category of ownership, we buy publicly-traded stocks through which we
passively own pieces of businesses. Holding these investments, we have no say in management.

3

Our goal in both forms of ownership is to make meaningful investments in businesses with
both long-lasting favorable economic characteristics and trustworthy managers. Please note
particularly that we own publicly-traded stocks based on our expectations about their long-term
business performance, not because we view them as vehicles for adroit purchases and sales. That
point is crucial: Charlie and I are not stock-pickers; we are business-pickers.
Over the years, I have made many mistakes. Consequently, our extensive collection of
businesses currently consists of a few enterprises that have truly extraordinary economics, many
that enjoy very good economic characteristics, and a large group that are marginal. Along the way,
other businesses in which I have invested have died, their products unwanted by the public.
Capitalism has two sides: The system creates an ever-growing pile of losers while concurrently
delivering a gusher of improved goods and services. Schumpeter called this phenomenon “creative
destruction.”
One advantage of our publicly-traded segment is that – episodically – it becomes easy to
buy pieces of wonderful businesses at wonderful prices. It’s crucial to understand that stocks often
trade at truly foolish prices, both high and low. “Efficient” markets exist only in textbooks. In
truth, marketable stocks and bonds are baffling, their behavior usually understandable only in
retrospect.
Controlled businesses are a different breed. They sometimes command ridiculously higher
prices than justified but are almost never available at bargain valuations. Unless under duress, the
owner of a controlled business gives no thought to selling at a panic-type valuation.
************
At this point, a report card from me is appropriate: In 58 years of Berkshire management,
most of my capital-allocation decisions have been no better than so-so. In some cases, also, bad
moves by me have been rescued by very large doses of luck. (Remember our escapes from
near-disasters at USAir and Salomon? I certainly do.)
Our satisfactory results have been the product of about a dozen truly good decisions – that
would be about one every five years – and a sometimes-forgotten advantage that favors long-term
investors such as Berkshire. Let’s take a peek behind the curtain.
The Secret Sauce
In August 1994 – yes, 1994 – Berkshire completed its seven-year purchase of the 400
million shares of Coca-Cola we now own. The total cost was $1.3 billion – then a very meaningful
sum at Berkshire.
The cash dividend we received from Coke in 1994 was $75 million. By 2022, the dividend
had increased to $704 million. Growth occurred every year, just as certain as birthdays. All Charlie
and I were required to do was cash Coke’s quarterly dividend checks. We expect that those checks
are highly likely to grow.

4

American Express is much the same story. Berkshire’s purchases of Amex were essentially
completed in 1995 and, coincidentally, also cost $1.3 billion. Annual dividends received from this
investment have grown from $41 million to $302 million. Those checks, too, seem highly likely
to increase.
These dividend gains, though pleasing, are far from spectacular. But they bring with them
important gains in stock prices. At yearend, our Coke investment was valued at $25 billion while
Amex was recorded at $22 billion. Each holding now accounts for roughly 5% of Berkshire’s net
worth, akin to its weighting long ago.
Assume, for a moment, I had made a similarly-sized investment mistake in the 1990s, one
that flat-lined and simply retained its $1.3 billion value in 2022. (An example would be a
high-grade 30-year bond.) That disappointing investment would now represent an insignificant
0.3% of Berkshire’s net worth and would be delivering to us an unchanged $80 million or so of
annual income.
The lesson for investors: The weeds wither away in significance as the flowers bloom.
Over time, it takes just a few winners to work wonders. And, yes, it helps to start early and live
into your 90s as well.
The Past Year in Brief
Berkshire had a good year in 2022. The company’s operating earnings – our term for
income calculated using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), exclusive of
capital gains or losses from equity holdings – set a record at $30.8 billion. Charlie and I focus on
this operational figure and urge you to do so as well. The GAAP figure, absent our adjustment,
fluctuates wildly and capriciously at every reporting date. Note its acrobatic behavior in 2022,
which is in no way unusual:

2022 Quarter
1
2
3
4

Earnings in $ billions
GAAP Earnings We
“Operating Earnings”
are Required to Report
7.0
9.3
7.8
6.7

5.5
(43.8)
(2.7)
18.2

The GAAP earnings are 100% misleading when viewed quarterly or even annually. Capital
gains, to be sure, have been hugely important to Berkshire over past decades, and we expect them
to be meaningfully positive in future decades. But their quarter-by-quarter gyrations, regularly and
mindlessly headlined by media, totally misinform investors.

5

A second positive development for Berkshire last year was our purchase of Alleghany
Corporation, a property-casualty insurer captained by Joe Brandon. I’ve worked with Joe in the
past, and he understands both Berkshire and insurance. Alleghany delivers special value to
us because Berkshire’s unmatched financial strength allows its insurance subsidiaries to follow
valuable and enduring investment strategies unavailable to virtually all competitors.
Aided by Alleghany, our insurance float increased during 2022 from $147 billion to $164
billion. With disciplined underwriting, these funds have a decent chance of being cost-free over
time. Since purchasing our first property-casualty insurer in 1967, Berkshire’s float has increased
8,000-fold through acquisitions, operations and innovations. Though not recognized in our
financial statements, this float has been an extraordinary asset for Berkshire. New shareholders
can get an understanding of its value by reading our annually updated explanation of float on
page A-2.
************
A very minor gain in per-share intrinsic value took place in 2022 through Berkshire share
repurchases as well as similar moves at Apple and American Express, both significant investees
of ours. At Berkshire, we directly increased your interest in our unique collection of businesses by
repurchasing 1.2% of the company’s outstanding shares. At Apple and Amex, repurchases
increased Berkshire’s ownership a bit without any cost to us.
The math isn’t complicated: When the share count goes down, your interest in our many
businesses goes up. Every small bit helps if repurchases are made at value-accretive prices. Just
as surely, when a company overpays for repurchases, the continuing shareholders lose. At such
times, gains flow only to the selling shareholders and to the friendly, but expensive, investment
banker who recommended the foolish purchases.
Gains from value-accretive repurchases, it should be emphasized, benefit all owners – in
every respect. Imagine, if you will, three fully-informed shareholders of a local auto dealership,
one of whom manages the business. Imagine, further, that one of the passive owners wishes to sell
his interest back to the company at a price attractive to the two continuing shareholders. When
completed, has this transaction harmed anyone? Is the manager somehow favored over the
continuing passive owners? Has the public been hurt?