the gain at whatever rate then prevails. Currently, the federal rate is 21%.)
It is certain that Berkshire’s rewards from these 10 companies, as well as those from our many other equity
holdings, will manifest themselves in a highly irregular manner. Periodically, there will be losses, sometimes
company-specific, sometimes linked to stock-market swoons. At other times – last year was one of those – our gain
will be outsized. Overall, the retained earnings of our investees are certain to be of major importance in the growth of
Berkshire’s value.
Mr. Smith got it right.

5

Non-Insurance Operations
Tom Murphy, a valued director of Berkshire and an all-time great among business managers, long ago gave
me some important advice about acquisitions: “To achieve a reputation as a good manager, just be sure you buy good
businesses.”
Over the years Berkshire has acquired many dozens of companies, all of which I initially regarded as “good
businesses.” Some, however, proved disappointing; more than a few were outright disasters. A reasonable number, on
the other hand, have exceeded my hopes.
In reviewing my uneven record, I’ve concluded that acquisitions are similar to marriage: They start, of course,
with a joyful wedding – but then reality tends to diverge from pre-nuptial expectations. Sometimes, wonderfully, the
new union delivers bliss beyond either party’s hopes. In other cases, disillusionment is swift. Applying those images
to corporate acquisitions, I’d have to say it is usually the buyer who encounters unpleasant surprises. It’s easy to get
dreamy-eyed during corporate courtships.
Pursuing that analogy, I would say that our marital record remains largely acceptable, with all parties happy
with the decisions they made long ago. Some of our tie-ups have been positively idyllic. A meaningful number,
however, have caused me all too quickly to wonder what I was thinking when I proposed.
Fortunately, the fallout from many of my errors has been reduced by a characteristic shared by most
businesses that disappoint: As the years pass, the “poor” business tends to stagnate, thereupon entering a state in which
its operations require an ever-smaller percentage of Berkshire’s capital. Meanwhile, our “good” businesses often tend
to grow and find opportunities for investing additional capital at attractive rates. Because of these contrasting
trajectories, the assets employed at Berkshire’s winners gradually become an expanding portion of our total capital.
As an extreme example of those financial movements, witness Berkshire’s original textile business. When
we acquired control of the company in early 1965, this beleaguered operation required nearly all of Berkshire’s capital.
For some time, therefore, Berkshire’s non-earning textile assets were a huge drag on our overall returns. Eventually,
though, we acquired a spread of “good” businesses, a shift that by the early 1980s caused the dwindling textile
operation to employ only a tiny portion of our capital.
Today, we have most of your money deployed in controlled businesses that achieve good-to-excellent returns
on the net tangible assets each requires for its operations. Our insurance business has been the superstar. That operation
has special characteristics that give it a unique metric for calibrating success, one unfamiliar to many investors. We
will save that discussion for the next section.
In the paragraphs that follow, we group our wide array of non-insurance businesses by size of earnings, after
interest, depreciation, taxes, non-cash compensation, restructuring charges – all of those pesky, but very real, costs
that CEOs and Wall Street sometimes urge investors to ignore. Additional information about these operations can be
found on pages K-6 – K-21 and pages K-40 – K-52.
Our BNSF railroad and Berkshire Hathaway Energy (“BHE”) – the two lead dogs of Berkshire’s noninsurance group – earned a combined $8.3 billion in 2019 (including only our 91% share of BHE), an increase of 6%
from 2018.
Our next five non-insurance subsidiaries, as ranked by earnings (but presented here alphabetically), Clayton
Homes, International Metalworking, Lubrizol, Marmon and Precision Castparts, had aggregate earnings in 2019 of
$4.8 billion, little changed from what these companies earned in 2018.
The next five, similarly ranked and listed (Berkshire Hathaway Automotive, Johns Manville, NetJets, Shaw
and TTI) earned $1.9 billion last year, up from the $1.7 billion earned by this tier in 2018.

6

The remaining non-insurance businesses that Berkshire owns – and there are many – had aggregate earnings
of $2.7 billion in 2019, down from $2.8 billion in 2018.
Our total net income in 2019 from the non-insurance businesses we control amounted to $17.7 billion, an
increase of 3% from the $17.2 billion this group earned in 2018. Acquisitions and dispositions had almost no net effect
on these results.
************
I must add one final item that underscores the wide scope of Berkshire’s operations. Since 2011, we have
owned Lubrizol, an Ohio-based company that produces and markets oil additives throughout the world. On September
26, 2019, a fire originating at a small next-door operation spread to a large French plant owned by Lubrizol.
The result was significant property damage and a major disruption in Lubrizol’s business. Even so, both the
company’s property loss and business-interruption loss will be mitigated by substantial insurance recoveries that
Lubrizol will receive.
But, as the late Paul Harvey was given to saying in his famed radio broadcasts, “Here’s the rest of the story.”
One of the largest insurers of Lubrizol was a company owned by . . . uh, Berkshire.
In Matthew 6:3, the Bible instructs us to “Let not the left hand know what the right hand doeth.” Your
chairman has clearly behaved as ordered.
Property/Casualty Insurance
Our property/casualty (“P/C”) insurance business has been the engine propelling Berkshire’s growth since
1967, the year we acquired National Indemnity and its sister company, National Fire & Marine, for $8.6 million.
Today, National Indemnity is the largest P/C company in the world as measured by net worth. Insurance is a business
of promises, and Berkshire’s ability to honor its commitments is unmatched.
One reason we were attracted to the P/C business was the industry’s business model: P/C insurers receive
premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases, such as claims arising from exposure to asbestos, or severe
workplace accidents, payments can stretch over many decades.
This collect-now, pay-later model leaves P/C companies holding large sums – money we call “float” – that
will eventually go to others. Meanwhile, insurers get to invest this float for their own benefit. Though individual
policies and claims come and go, the amount of float an insurer holds usually remains fairly stable in relation to
premium volume. Consequently, as our business grows, so does our float. And how it has grown, as the following
table shows:
Year

Float (in millions)

1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2018
2019

$

39
237
1,632
27,871
65,832
122,732
129,423

We may in time experience a decline in float. If so, the decline will be very gradual – at the outside no more
than 3% in any year. The nature of our insurance contracts is such that we can never be subject to immediate or nearterm demands for sums that are of significance to our cash resources. That structure is by design and is a key
component in the unequaled financial strength of our insurance companies. That strength will never be compromised.

7

If our premiums exceed the total of our expenses and eventual losses, our insurance operation registers an
underwriting profit that adds to the investment income the float produces. When such a profit is earned, we enjoy the
use of free money – and, better yet, get paid for holding it.
For the P/C industry as a whole, the financial value of float is now far less than it was for many years. That’s
because the standard investment strategy for almost all P/C companies is heavily – and properly – skewed toward
high-grade bonds. Changes in interest rates therefore matter enormously to these companies, and during the last decade
the bond market has offered pathetically low rates.
Consequently, insurers suffered, as year by year they were forced – by maturities or issuer-call provisions –
to recycle their “old” investment portfolios into new holdings providing much lower yields. Where once these insurers
could safely earn 5 cents or 6 cents on each dollar of float, they now take in only 2 cents or 3 cents (or even less if
their operations are concentrated in countries mired in the never-never land of negative rates).
Some insurers may try to mitigate their loss of revenue by buying lower-quality bonds or non-liquid
“alternative” investments promising higher yields. But those are dangerous games and activities that most institutions
are ill-equipped to play.
Berkshire’s situation is more favorable than that of insurers in general. Most important, our unrivaled
mountain of capital, abundance of cash and a huge and diverse stream of non-insurance earnings allow us far more
investment flexibility than is generally available to other companies in the industry. The many choices open to us are
always advantageous – and sometimes have presented us with major opportunities.
Our P/C companies have meanwhile had an excellent underwriting record. Berkshire has now operated at an