year’s annual meeting. The sponsor would like us to provide a report on the dangers that this change might present
to our insurance operation and explain how we are responding to these threats.
It seems highly likely to me that climate change poses a major problem for the planet. I say “highly likely”
rather than “certain” because I have no scientific aptitude and remember well the dire predictions of most “experts”
about Y2K. It would be foolish, however, for me or anyone to demand 100% proof of huge forthcoming damage to
the world if that outcome seemed at all possible and if prompt action had even a small chance of thwarting the
danger.
This issue bears a similarity to Pascal’s Wager on the Existence of God. Pascal, it may be recalled, argued
that if there were only a tiny probability that God truly existed, it made sense to behave as if He did because the
rewards could be infinite whereas the lack of belief risked eternal misery. Likewise, if there is only a 1% chance the
planet is heading toward a truly major disaster and delay means passing a point of no return, inaction now is
foolhardy. Call this Noah’s Law: If an ark may be essential for survival, begin building it today, no matter how
cloudless the skies appear.
It’s understandable that the sponsor of the proxy proposal believes Berkshire is especially threatened by
climate change because we are a huge insurer, covering all sorts of risks. The sponsor may worry that property
losses will skyrocket because of weather changes. And such worries might, in fact, be warranted if we wrote ten- or
twenty-year policies at fixed prices. But insurance policies are customarily written for one year and repriced
annually to reflect changing exposures. Increased possibilities of loss translate promptly into increased premiums.

25

Think back to 1951 when I first became enthused about GEICO. The company’s average loss-per-policy
was then about $30 annually. Imagine your reaction if I had predicted then that in 2015 the loss costs would increase
to about $1,000 per policy. Wouldn’t such skyrocketing losses prove disastrous, you might ask? Well, no.
Over the years, inflation has caused a huge increase in the cost of repairing both the cars and the humans
involved in accidents. But these increased costs have been promptly matched by increased premiums. So,
paradoxically, the upward march in loss costs has made insurance companies far more valuable. If costs had
remained unchanged, Berkshire would now own an auto insurer doing $600 million of business annually rather than
one doing $23 billion.
Up to now, climate change has not produced more frequent nor more costly hurricanes nor other weatherrelated events covered by insurance. As a consequence, U.S. super-cat rates have fallen steadily in recent years,
which is why we have backed away from that business. If super-cats become costlier and more frequent, the likely –
though far from certain – effect on Berkshire’s insurance business would be to make it larger and more profitable.
As a citizen, you may understandably find climate change keeping you up nights. As a homeowner in a
low-lying area, you may wish to consider moving. But when you are thinking only as a shareholder of a major
insurer, climate change should not be on your list of worries.
The Annual Meeting
Charlie and I have finally decided to enter the 21st Century. Our annual meeting this year will be webcast
worldwide in its entirety. To view the meeting, simply go to https://finance.yahoo.com/brklivestream at 9 a.m.
Central Daylight Time on Saturday, April 30th. The Yahoo! webcast will begin with a half hour of interviews with
managers, directors and shareholders. Then, at 9:30, Charlie and I will commence answering questions.
This new arrangement will serve two purposes. First, it may level off or modestly decrease attendance at
the meeting. Last year’s record of more than 40,000 attendees strained our capacity. In addition to quickly filling the
CenturyLink Center’s main arena, we packed its overflow rooms and then spilled into two large meeting rooms at
the adjoining Omaha Hilton. All major hotels were sold out notwithstanding Airbnb’s stepped-up presence. Airbnb
was especially helpful for those visitors on limited budgets.
Our second reason for initiating a webcast is more important. Charlie is 92, and I am 85. If we were
partners with you in a small business, and were charged with running the place, you would want to look in
occasionally to make sure we hadn’t drifted off into la-la land. Shareholders, in contrast, should not need to come to
Omaha to monitor how we look and sound. (In making your evaluation, be kind: Allow for the fact that we didn’t
look that impressive when we were at our best.)
Viewers can also observe our life-prolonging diet. During the meeting, Charlie and I will each consume
enough Coke, See’s fudge and See’s peanut brittle to satisfy the weekly caloric needs of an NFL lineman. Long ago
we discovered a fundamental truth: There’s nothing like eating carrots and broccoli when you’re really hungry –
and want to stay that way.
Shareholders planning to attend the meeting should come at 7 a.m. when the doors open at CenturyLink
Center and start shopping. Carrie Sova will again be in charge of the festivities. She had her second child late last
month, but that did not slow her down. Carrie is unflappable, ingenious and expert at bringing out the best in those
who work with her. She is aided by hundreds of Berkshire employees from around the country and by our entire
home office crew as well, all of them pitching in to make the weekend fun and informative for our owners.

26

Last year we increased the number of hours available for shopping at the CenturyLink. Sales skyrocketed –
so, naturally, we will stay with the new schedule. On Friday, April 29th you can shop between noon and 5 p.m., and
on Saturday exhibits and stores will be open from 7 a.m. until 4:30 p.m.
On Saturday morning, we will have our fifth International Newspaper Tossing Challenge. Our target will
again be a Clayton Home porch, located precisely 35 feet from the throwing line. When I was a teenager – in my
one brief flirtation with honest labor – I delivered about 500,000 papers. So I think I’m pretty good at this game.
Challenge me! Humiliate me! Knock me down a peg! The papers will run 36 to 42 pages, and you must fold them
yourself (no rubber bands allowed).
The competition begins at 7:15, when contestants will make preliminary tosses. The eight throws judged
most accurate – four made by contestants 12 or under, and four made by the older set – will compete against me at
7:45. The young challengers will each receive a prize. But the older ones will have to beat me to take anything
home.
And be sure to check out the Clayton home itself. It can be purchased for $78,900, fully installed on land
you provide. In past years, we’ve made many sales on the meeting day. Kevin Clayton will be on hand with his
order book.
At 8:30 a.m., a new Berkshire movie will be shown. An hour later, we will start the question-and-answer
period, which (including a break for lunch at CenturyLink’s stands) will last until 3:30 p.m. After a short recess,
Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:45 p.m. This business session typically lasts only a half hour or
so and can safely be skipped by those craving a little last-minute shopping.
Your venue for shopping will be the 194,300-square-foot hall that adjoins the meeting and in which
products from dozens of Berkshire subsidiaries will be for sale. Say hello to the many Berkshire managers who will
be captaining their exhibits. And be sure to view the terrific BNSF railroad layout that salutes all of our subsidiaries.
Your children (and you!) will be enchanted with it.
We will have a new and very special exhibit in the hall this year: a full-size model of the world’s largest
aircraft engine, for which Precision Castparts makes many key components. The real engines weigh about 20,000
pounds and are ten feet in diameter and 22 feet in length. The bisected model at the meeting will give you a good
look at many PCC components that help power your flights.
Brooks, our running-shoe company, will again have a special commemorative shoe to offer at the meeting.
After you purchase a pair, wear them on Sunday at our fourth annual “Berkshire 5K,” an 8 a.m. race starting at the
CenturyLink. Full details for participating will be included in the Visitor’s Guide that will be sent to you with your
meeting credentials. Entrants in the race will find themselves running alongside many of Berkshire’s managers,
directors and associates. (Charlie and I, however, will sleep in; the fudge and peanut brittle take their toll.)
Participation in the 5K grows every year. Help us set another record.
A GEICO booth in the shopping area will be staffed by a number of the company’s top counselors from