Berkshire has one major equity position that is not included in the table: We can buy 700 million shares of
Bank of America at any time prior to September 2021 for $5 billion. At yearend these shares were worth $11.8
billion. We are likely to purchase them just before expiration of our option and, if we wish, we can use our $5
billion of Bank of America 6% preferred to fund the purchase. In the meantime, it is important for you to realize that
Bank of America is, in effect, our fourth largest equity investment – and one we value highly.

20

Productivity and Prosperity
Earlier, I told you how our partners at Kraft Heinz root out inefficiencies, thereby increasing output per
hour of employment. That kind of improvement has been the secret sauce of America’s remarkable gains in living
standards since the nation’s founding in 1776. Unfortunately, the label of “secret” is appropriate: Too few
Americans fully grasp the linkage between productivity and prosperity. To see that connection, let’s look first at the
country’s most dramatic example – farming – and later examine three Berkshire-specific areas.
In 1900, America’s civilian work force numbered 28 million. Of these, 11 million, a staggering 40% of the
total, worked in farming. The leading crop then, as now, was corn. About 90 million acres were devoted to its
production and the yield per acre was 30 bushels, for a total output of 2.7 billion bushels annually.
Then came the tractor and one innovation after another that revolutionized such keys to farm productivity
as planting, harvesting, irrigation, fertilization and seed quality. Today, we devote about 85 million acres to corn.
Productivity, however, has improved yields to more than 150 bushels per acre, for an annual output of 13-14 billion
bushels. Farmers have made similar gains with other products.
Increased yields, though, are only half the story: The huge increases in physical output have been
accompanied by a dramatic reduction in the number of farm laborers (“human input”). Today about three million
people work on farms, a tiny 2% of our 158-million-person work force. Thus, improved farming methods have
allowed tens of millions of present-day workers to utilize their time and talents in other endeavors, a reallocation of
human resources that enables Americans of today to enjoy huge quantities of non-farm goods and services they
would otherwise lack.
It’s easy to look back over the 115-year span and realize how extraordinarily beneficial agricultural
innovations have been – not just for farmers but, more broadly, for our entire society. We would not have anything
close to the America we now know had we stifled those improvements in productivity. (It was fortunate that horses
couldn’t vote.) On a day-to-day basis, however, talk of the “greater good” must have rung hollow to farm hands who
lost their jobs to machines that performed routine tasks far more efficiently than humans ever could. We will
examine this flip-side to productivity gains later in this section.
For the moment, however, let’s move on to three stories of efficiencies that have had major consequences
for Berkshire subsidiaries. Similar transformations have been commonplace throughout American business.
‹

In 1947, shortly after the end of World War II, the American workforce totaled 44 million. About
1.35 million workers were employed in the railroad industry. The revenue ton-miles of freight moved by
Class I railroads that year totaled 655 billion.
By 2014, Class I railroads carried 1.85 trillion ton-miles, an increase of 182%, while employing only
187,000 workers, a reduction of 86% since 1947. (Some of this change involved passenger-related
employees, but most of the workforce reduction came on the freight side.) As a result of this staggering
improvement in productivity, the inflation-adjusted price for moving a ton-mile of freight has fallen by
55% since 1947, a drop saving shippers about $90 billion annually in current dollars.
Another startling statistic: If it took as many people now to move freight as it did in 1947, we would need
well over three million railroad workers to handle present volumes. (Of course, that level of employment
would raise freight charges by a lot; consequently, nothing close to today’s volume would actually move.)

21

Our own BNSF was formed in 1995 by a merger between Burlington Northern and Santa Fe. In 1996, the
merged company’s first full year of operation, 411 million ton-miles of freight were transported by 45,000
employees. Last year the comparable figures were 702 million ton-miles (plus 71%) and 47,000 employees
(plus only 4%). That dramatic gain in productivity benefits both owners and shippers. Safety at BNSF has
improved as well: Reportable injuries were 2.04 per 200,000 man-hours in 1996 and have since fallen more
than 50% to 0.95.
‹

A bit more than a century ago, the auto was invented, and around it formed an industry that insures cars
and their drivers. Initially, this business was written through traditional insurance agencies – the kind
dealing in fire insurance. This agency-centric approach included high commissions and other underwriting
expenses that consumed about 40¢ of the premium dollar. Strong local agencies were then in the driver’s
seat because they represented multiple insurers and could play one company off against another when
commissions were being negotiated. Cartel-like pricing prevailed, and all involved were doing fine –
except for the consumer.
And then some American ingenuity came into play: G. J. Mecherle, a farmer from Merna, Illinois, came up
with the idea of a captive sales force that would sell the insurance products of only a single company. His
baby was christened State Farm Mutual. The company cut commissions and expenses – moves that
permitted lower prices – and soon became a powerhouse. For many decades, State Farm has been the
runaway volume leader in both auto and homeowner’s insurance. Allstate, which also operated with a
direct distribution model, was long the runner-up. Both State Farm and Allstate have had underwriting
expenses of about 25%.
In the early 1930s, another contender, United Services Auto Association (“USAA”), a mutual-like
company, was writing auto insurance for military officers on a direct-to-the-customer basis. This marketing
innovation rose from a need that military personnel had to buy insurance that would stay with them as they
moved from base to base. That was business of little interest to local insurance agencies, which wanted the
steady renewals that came from permanent residents.
The direct distribution method of USAA, as it happened, incurred lower costs than those enjoyed by State
Farm and Allstate and therefore delivered an even greater bargain to customers. That made Leo and Lillian
Goodwin, employees of USAA, dream of broadening the target market for its direct distribution model
beyond military officers. In 1936, starting with $100,000 of capital, they incorporated Government
Employees Insurance Co. (later compressing this mouthful to GEICO).
Their fledgling did $238,000 of auto insurance business in 1937, its first full year. Last year GEICO did
$22.6 billion, more than double the volume of USAA. (Though the early bird gets the worm, the second
mouse gets the cheese.) GEICO’s underwriting expenses in 2015 were 14.7% of premiums, with USAA
being the only large company to achieve a lower percentage. (GEICO is fully as efficient as USAA but
spends considerably more on advertising aimed at promoting growth.)
With the price advantage GEICO’s low costs allow, it’s not surprising that several years ago the company
seized the number two spot in auto insurance from Allstate. GEICO is also gaining ground on State Farm,
though it is still far ahead of us in volume. On August 30, 2030 – my 100th birthday – I plan to announce
that GEICO has taken over the top spot. Mark your calendar.
GEICO employs about 34,000 people to serve its 14 million policyholders. I can only guess at the
workforce it would require to serve a similar number of policyholders under the agency system. I believe,
however, that the number would be at least 60,000, a combination of what the insurer would need in direct
employment and the personnel required at supporting agencies.

22

‹

In its electric utility business, our Berkshire Hathaway Energy (“BHE”) operates within a changing
economic model. Historically, the survival of a local electric company did not depend on its efficiency. In
fact, a “sloppy” operation could do just fine financially.
That’s because utilities were usually the sole supplier of a needed product and were allowed to price at a
level that gave them a prescribed return upon the capital they employed. The joke in the industry was that a
utility was the only business that would automatically earn more money by redecorating the boss’s office.
And some CEOs ran things accordingly.
That’s all changing. Today, society has decided that federally-subsidized wind and solar generation is in
our country’s long-term interest. Federal tax credits are used to implement this policy, support that makes
renewables price-competitive in certain geographies. Those tax credits, or other government-mandated help
for renewables, may eventually erode the economics of the incumbent utility, particularly if it is a high-cost