
     In a characteristically rash move, we have expanded World 
Headquarters by 252 square feet (17%), coincidental with the 
signing of a new five-year lease at 1440 Kiewit Plaza.  The five 
people who work here with me - Joan Atherton, Mike Goldberg, 
Gladys Kaiser, Verne McKenzie and Bill Scott - outproduce 
corporate groups many times their number.  A compact organization 
lets all of us spend our time managing the business rather than 
managing each other.

     Charlie Munger, my partner in management, will continue to 
operate from Los Angeles whether or not the Blue Chip merger 
occurs.  Charlie and I are interchangeable in business decisions.  
Distance impedes us not at all: we’ve always found a telephone 
call to be more productive than a half-day committee meeting.

                         *  *  *  *  *

     Two of our managerial stars retired this year: Phil Liesche 
at 65 from National Indemnity Company, and Ben Rosner at 79 from 
Associated Retail Stores.  Both of these men made you, as 
shareholders of Berkshire, a good bit wealthier than you 
otherwise would have been.  National Indemnity has been the most 
important operation in Berkshire’s growth.  Phil and Jack 
Ringwalt, his predecessor, were the two prime movers in National 
Indemnity’s success.  Ben Rosner sold Associated Retail Stores to 
Diversified Retailing Company for cash in 1967, promised to stay 
on only until the end of the year, and then hit business home 
runs for us for the next fifteen years.

     Both Ben and Phil ran their businesses for Berkshire with 
every bit of the care and drive that they would have exhibited 
had they personally owned 100% of these businesses.  No rules 
were necessary to enforce or even encourage this attitude; it was 
embedded in the character of these men long before we came on the 
scene.  Their good character became our good fortune.  If we can 
continue to attract managers with the qualities of Ben and Phil, 
you need not worry about Berkshire’s future.


                                          Warren E. Buffett
                                          Chairman of the Board
