# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1993

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Our per-share book value increased 14.3% during 1993.  Over 
the last 29 years (that is, since present management took over) 
book value has grown from $19 to $8,854, or at a rate of 23.3% 
compounded annually.

     During the year, Berkshire's net worth increased by $1.5 
billion, a figure affected by two negative and two positive non-
operating items.  For the sake of completeness, I'll explain them 
here.  If you aren't thrilled by accounting, however, feel free 
to fast-forward through this discussion:

     1.     The first negative was produced by a change in 
            Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) 
            having to do with the taxes we accrue against 
            unrealized appreciation in the securities we 
            carry at market value.  The old rule said that 
            the tax rate used should be the one in effect 
            when the appreciation took place.  Therefore, 
            at the end of 1992, we were using a rate of 34% 
            on the $6.4 billion of gains generated after 
            1986 and 28% on the $1.2 billion of gains 
            generated before that.  The new rule stipulates 
            that the current tax rate should be applied to 
            all gains.  The rate in the first quarter of 
            1993, when this rule went into effect, was 34%. 
            Applying that rate to our pre-1987 gains 
            reduced net worth by $70 million.

     2.     The second negative, related to the first, came 
            about because the corporate tax rate was raised 
            in the third quarter of 1993 to 35%.  This 
            change required us to make an additional charge 
            of 1% against all of our unrealized gains, and 
            that charge penalized net worth by $75 million. 
            Oddly, GAAP required both this charge and the 
            one described above to be deducted from the 
            earnings we report, even though the unrealized 
            appreciation that gave rise to the charges was 
            never included in earnings, but rather was 
            credited directly to net worth.

     3.     Another 1993 change in GAAP affects the value 
            at which we carry the securities that we own.  
            In recent years, both the common stocks and 
            certain common-equivalent securities held by 
            our insurance companies have been valued at 
            market, whereas equities held by our non-
            insurance subsidiaries or by the parent company 
            were carried at their aggregate cost or market, 
            whichever was lower.  Now GAAP says that
all
common stocks should be carried at market, a 
            rule we began following in the fourth quarter 
            of 1993.  This change produced a gain in 
            Berkshire's reported net worth of about $172 
            million.

     4.     Finally, we issued some stock last year.  In a 
            transaction described in last year's Annual 
            Report, we issued 3,944 shares in early 
            January, 1993 upon the conversion of $46 
            million convertible debentures that we had 
            called for redemption.  Additionally, we issued 
            25,203 shares when we acquired Dexter Shoe, a 
            purchase discussed later in this report.  The 
            overall result was that our shares outstanding 
            increased by 29,147 and our net worth by about 
            $478 million.  Per-share book value also grew, 
            because the shares issued in these transactions 
            carried a price above their book value.

     Of course, it's per-share intrinsic value, not book value, 
that counts.  Book value is an accounting term that measures the 
capital, including retained earnings, that has been put into a 
business.  Intrinsic value is a present-value estimate of the 
cash that can be taken out of a business during its remaining 
life.  At most companies, the two values are unrelated.  
Berkshire, however, is an exception:  Our book value, though 
significantly below our intrinsic value, serves as a useful 
device for tracking that key figure.  In 1993, each measure grew 
by roughly 14%, advances that I would call satisfactory but 
unexciting.

     These gains, however, were outstripped by a much larger gain 
- 39% - in Berkshire's market price.  Over time, of course, 
market price and intrinsic value will arrive at about the same 
destination.  But in the short run the two often diverge in a 
major way, a phenomenon I've discussed in the past.  Two years 
ago, Coca-Cola and Gillette, both large holdings of ours, enjoyed 
market price increases that dramatically outpaced their earnings 
gains.  In the 1991 Annual Report, I said that the stocks of 
these companies could not continuously overperform their 
businesses.

     From 1991 to 1993, Coke and Gillette increased their annual 
operating earnings per share by 38% and 37% respectively, but 
their market prices moved up only 11% and 6%.  In other words, 
the companies overperformed their stocks, a result that no doubt 
partly reflects Wall Street's new apprehension about brand names. 
Whatever the reason, what will count over time is the earnings 
performance of these companies.  If they prosper, Berkshire will 
also prosper, though not in a lock-step manner.

     Let me add a lesson from history:  Coke went public in 1919 
at $40 per share.  By the end of 1920 the market, coldly 
reevaluating Coke's future prospects, had battered the stock down 
by more than 50%, to $19.50.  At yearend 1993, that single share, 
with dividends reinvested, was worth more than $2.1 million.  As 
Ben Graham said:  "In the short-run, the market is a voting 
machine - reflecting a voter-registration test that requires only 
money, not intelligence or emotional stability - but in the long-
run, the market is a weighing machine."

     So how should Berkshire's over-performance in the market 
last year be viewed?  Clearly, Berkshire was selling at a higher 
percentage of intrinsic value at the end of 1993 than was the 
case at the beginning of the year.  On the other hand, in a world 
of 6% or 7% long-term interest rates, Berkshire's market price 
was not inappropriate if - and you should understand that this is 
a huge if - Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman, and I can 
attain our long-standing goal of increasing Berkshire's per-share 
intrinsic value at an average annual rate of 15%.  We have not 
retreated from this goal.  But we again emphasize, as we have for 
many years, that the growth in our capital base makes 15% an 
ever-more difficult target to hit.

     What we have going for us is a growing collection of good-
sized operating businesses that possess economic characteristics 
ranging from good to terrific, run by managers whose performance 
ranges from terrific to terrific.  You need have no worries about 
this group.

     The capital-allocation work that Charlie and I do at the 
parent company, using the funds that our managers deliver to us, 
has a less certain outcome:  It is not easy to find new 
businesses and managers comparable to those we have.  Despite 
that difficulty, Charlie and I relish the search, and we are 
happy to report an important success in 1993.
Dexter Shoe
What we did last year was build on our 1991 purchase of H. 
H. Brown, a superbly-run manufacturer of work shoes, boots and 
other footwear.  Brown has been a real winner:  Though we had 
high hopes to begin with, these expectations have been 
considerably exceeded thanks to Frank Rooney, Jim Issler and the 
talented managers who work with them.  Because of our confidence 
in Frank's team, we next acquired Lowell Shoe, at the end of 
1992.  Lowell was a long-established manufacturer of women's and 
nurses' shoes, but its business needed some fixing.  Again, 
results have surpassed our expectations.  So we promptly jumped 
at the chance last year to acquire Dexter Shoe of Dexter, Maine, 
which manufactures popular-priced men's and women's shoes.  
Dexter, I can assure you, needs
no
fixing:  It is one of the 
best-managed companies Charlie and I have seen in our business 
lifetimes.

     Harold Alfond, who started working in a shoe factory at 25 
cents an hour when he was 20, founded Dexter in 1956 with $10,000 
of capital.  He was joined in 1958 by Peter Lunder, his nephew.  
The two of them have since built a business that now produces over 
7.5 million pairs of shoes annually, most of them made in Maine 
and the balance in Puerto Rico.  As you probably know, the 
domestic shoe industry is generally thought to be unable to 
compete with imports from low-wage countries.  But someone forgot 
to tell this to the ingenious managements of Dexter and H. H. 
Brown and to their skilled labor forces, which together make the 
U.S. plants of both companies highly competitive against all 
comers.

     Dexter's business includes 77 retail outlets, located 
primarily in the Northeast.  The company is also a major 
manufacturer of golf shoes, producing about 15% of U.S. output.  
Its bread and butter, though, is the manufacture of traditional 
shoes for traditional retailers, a job at which it excels:  Last 
year both Nordstrom and J.C. Penney bestowed special awards upon 
Dexter for its performance as a supplier during 1992.

     Our 1993 results include Dexter only from our date of 
merger, November 7th.  In 1994, we expect Berkshire's shoe 
operations to have more than $550 million in sales, and we would 
not be surprised if the combined pre-tax earnings of these 
businesses topped $85 million.  Five years ago we had no thought 