decline in the aggregate value of our portfolio investments to 
send Berkshire's net worth down.

     We continue to be blessed with extraordinary managers at our 
portfolio companies. They are high-grade, talented, and 
shareholder-oriented. The exceptional results we have achieved 
while investing with them accurately reflect their exceptional 
personal qualities.
o
We told you last year that we expected to do little in 
arbitrage during 1989, and that's the way it turned out. 
Arbitrage positions are a substitute for short-term cash 
equivalents, and during part of the year we held relatively low 
levels of cash. In the rest of the year we had a fairly good-
sized cash position and even so chose not to engage in arbitrage. 
The main reason was corporate transactions that made no economic 
sense to us; arbitraging such deals comes too close to playing 
the greater-fool game. (As Wall Streeter Ray DeVoe says: "Fools 
rush in where angels fear to trade.") We will engage in arbitrage 
from time to time - sometimes on a large scale - but only when we 
like the odds.
o
Leaving aside the three convertible preferreds discussed in 
the next section, we substantially reduced our holdings in both 
medium- and long-term fixed-income securities. In the long-terms, 
just about our only holdings have been Washington Public Power 
Supply Systems (WPPSS) bonds carrying coupons ranging from low to 
high. During the year we sold a number of the low-coupon issues, 
which we originally bought at very large discounts. Many of these 
issues had approximately doubled in price since we purchased them 
and in addition had paid us 15%-17% annually, tax-free. Our 
prices upon sale were only slightly cheaper than typical high-
grade tax-exempts then commanded. We have kept all of our high-
coupon WPPSS issues. Some have been called for redemption in 1991 
and 1992, and we expect the rest to be called in the early to 
mid-1990s. 

     We also sold many of our medium-term tax-exempt bonds during 
the year. When we bought these bonds we said we would be happy to 
sell them - regardless of whether they were higher or lower than 
at our time of purchase - if something we liked better came 
along. Something did - and concurrently we unloaded most of these 
issues at modest gains. Overall, our 1989 profit from the sale of 
tax-exempt bonds was about $51 million pre-tax.
o
The proceeds from our bond sales, along with our excess cash 
at the beginning of the year and that generated later through 
earnings, went into the purchase of three convertible preferred 
stocks. In the first transaction, which took place in July, we 
purchased $600 million of The Gillette Co. preferred with an 8 
3/4% dividend, a mandatory redemption in ten years, and the right 
to convert into common at $50 per share. We next purchased $358 
million of USAir Group, Inc. preferred stock with mandatory 
redemption in ten years, a dividend of 9 1/4%, and the right to 
convert into common at $60 per share. Finally, late in the year 
we purchased $300 million of Champion International Corp. 
preferred with mandatory redemption in ten years, a 9 1/4% 
dividend, and the right to convert into common at $38 per share.

     Unlike standard convertible preferred stocks, the issues we 
own are either non-salable or non-convertible for considerable 
periods of time and there is consequently no way we can gain from 
short-term price blips in the common stock. I have gone on the 
board of Gillette, but I am not on the board of USAir or 
Champion. (I thoroughly enjoy the boards I am on, but can't 
handle any more.)

     Gillette's business is very much the kind we like. Charlie 
and I think we understand the company's economics and therefore 
believe we can make a reasonably intelligent guess about its 
future. (If you haven't tried Gillette's new Sensor razor, go 
right out and get one.) However, we have no ability to forecast 
the economics of the investment banking business (in which we 
have a position through our 1987 purchase of Salomon convertible 
preferred), the airline industry, or the paper industry. This 
does not mean that we predict a negative  future for these  
industries: we're  agnostics, not  atheists. Our  lack of  strong 
convictions about these businesses, however, means that we must 
structure our investments in them differently from what we do 
when we invest in a business appearing to have splendid economic 
characteristics.

     In one major respect, however, these purchases are not 
different: We only want to link up with people whom we like, 
admire, and trust. John Gutfreund at Salomon, Colman Mockler, Jr. 
at Gillette, Ed Colodny at USAir, and Andy Sigler at Champion 
meet this test in spades.

     They in turn have demonstrated some confidence in us, 
insisting in each case that our preferreds have unrestricted 
voting rights on a fully-converted basis, an arrangement that is 
far from standard in corporate finance. In effect they are 
trusting us to be intelligent owners, thinking about tomorrow
instead
of today, just as we are trusting them to be intelligent 
managers, thinking about tomorrow
as well
as today. 

     The preferred-stock structures we have negotiated will 
provide a mediocre return for us if industry economics hinder the 
performance of our investees, but will produce reasonably 
attractive results for us if they can earn a return comparable to 
that of American industry in general. We believe that Gillette, 
under Colman's management, will far exceed that return and 
believe that John, Ed, and Andy will reach it unless industry 
conditions are harsh.

     Under almost any conditions, we expect these preferreds to 
return us our money plus dividends. If that is all we get, 
though, the result will be disappointing, because we will have 
given up flexibility and consequently will have missed some 
significant opportunities that are bound to present themselves 
during the decade. Under that scenario, we will have obtained 
only a preferred-stock yield during a period when the typical 
preferred stock will have held no appeal for us whatsoever. The 
only way Berkshire can achieve satisfactory results from its four 
preferred issues is to have the common stocks of the investee 
companies do well. 

     Good management and at least tolerable industry conditions 
will be needed if that is to happen. But we believe Berkshire's 
investment will also help and that the other shareholders of each 
investee will profit over the years ahead from our preferred-
stock purchase. The help will come from the fact that each 
company now has a major, stable, and interested shareholder whose 
Chairman and Vice Chairman have, through Berkshire's investments, 
indirectly committed a very large amount of their own money to 
these undertakings. In dealing with our investees, Charlie and I 
will be supportive, analytical, and objective. We recognize that 
we are working with experienced CEOs who are very much in command 
of their own businesses but who nevertheless, at certain moments, 
appreciate the chance to test  their thinking on someone without 
ties to their industry or to decisions of the past.

     As a group, these convertible preferreds will not produce 
the returns we can achieve when we find a business with wonderful 
economic prospects that is unappreciated by the market. Nor will 
the returns be as attractive as those produced when we make our 
favorite form of capital deployment, the acquisition of 80% or 
more of a fine business with a fine management. But both 
opportunities are rare, particularly in a size befitting our 
present and anticipated resources. 

     In summation, Charlie and I feel that our preferred stock 
investments should produce returns moderately above those 
achieved by most fixed-income portfolios and that we can play a 
minor but enjoyable and constructive role in the investee 
companies.
Zero-Coupon Securities
In September, Berkshire issued $902.6 million principal 
amount of Zero-Coupon Convertible Subordinated Debentures, which 
are now listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Salomon Brothers 
handled the underwriting in superb fashion, providing us helpful 
advice and a flawless execution. 

     Most bonds, of course, require regular payments of interest, 
usually semi-annually. A zero-coupon bond, conversely, requires 
no current interest payments; instead, the investor receives his 
yield by purchasing the security at a significant discount from 
maturity value. The effective interest rate is determined by the 
original issue price, the maturity value, and the amount of time 
between issuance and maturity.

     In our case, the bonds were issued at 44.314% of maturity 
value and are due in 15 years. For investors purchasing the 
bonds, that is the mathematical equivalent of a 5.5% current 
payment compounded semi-annually. Because we received only 
44.31 cents on the dollar, our proceeds from this offering were 
$400 million (less about $9.5 million of offering expenses).

     The bonds were issued in denominations of $10,000 and each 
bond is convertible into .4515 shares of Berkshire Hathaway. 
Because a $10,000 bond cost $4,431, this means that the 
conversion price was $9,815 per Berkshire share, a 15% premium to 
the market price then existing. Berkshire can call the bonds at 
any time after  September 28, 1992 at their accreted value (the 