duration.  Two economic principles will see to that.  First, 
commodity businesses achieve good levels of profitability only 
when prices are fixed in some manner or when capacity is short.  
Second, managers quickly add to capacity when prospects start to 
improve and capital is available.

     In my 1982 report to you, I discussed the commodity nature 
of the insurance industry extensively.  The typical policyholder 
does not differentiate between products but concentrates instead 
on price.  For many decades a cartel-like procedure kept prices 
up, but this arrangement has disappeared for good.  The insurance 
product now is priced as any other commodity for which a free 
market exists: when capacity is tight, prices will be set 
remuneratively; otherwise, they will not be.

     Capacity currently is tight in many lines of insurance - 
though in this industry, unlike most, capacity is an attitudinal 
concept, not a physical fact.  Insurance managers can write 
whatever amount of business they feel comfortable writing, 
subject only to pressures applied by regulators and Best’s, the 
industry’s authoritative rating service.  The comfort level of 
both managers and regulators is tied to capital.  More capital 
means more comfort, which in turn means more capacity.  In the 
typical commodity business, furthermore, such as aluminum or 
steel, a long gestation precedes the birth of additional 
capacity.  In the insurance industry, capital can be secured 
instantly.  Thus, any capacity shortage can be eliminated in 
short order.

     That’s exactly what’s going on right now.  In 1985, about 15 
insurers raised well over $3 billion, piling up capital so that 
they can write all the business possible at the better prices now 
available.  The capital-raising trend has accelerated 
dramatically so far in 1986.

     If capacity additions continue at this rate, it won’t be 
long before serious price-cutting appears and next a fall in 
profitability.  When the fall comes, it will be the fault of the 
capital-raisers of 1985 and 1986, not the price-cutters of 198X. 
(Critics should be understanding, however: as was the case in our 
textile example, the dynamics of capitalism cause each insurer to 
make decisions that for itself appear sensible, but that 
collectively slash profitability.)

     In past reports, I have told you that Berkshire’s strong 
capital position - the best in the industry - should one day 
allow us to claim a distinct competitive advantage in the 
insurance market.  With the tightening of the market, that day 
arrived.  Our premium volume more than tripled last year, 
following a long period of stagnation.  Berkshire’s financial 
strength (and our record of maintaining unusual strength through 
thick and thin) is now a major asset for us in securing good 
business.

     We correctly foresaw a flight to quality by many large 
buyers of insurance and reinsurance who belatedly recognized that 
a policy is only an IOU - and who, in 1985, could not collect on 
many of their IOUs.  These buyers today are attracted to 
Berkshire because of its strong capital position.  But, in a 
development we did not foresee, we also are finding buyers drawn 
to us because our ability to insure substantial risks sets us 
apart from the crowd.

     To understand this point, you need a few background facts 
about large risks.  Traditionally, many insurers have wanted to 
write this kind of business.  However, their willingness to do so 
has been almost always based upon reinsurance arrangements that 
allow the insurer to keep just a small portion of the risk itself 
while passing on (“laying off”) most of the risk to its 
reinsurers.  Imagine, for example, a directors and officers 
(“D & O”) liability policy providing $25 million of coverage.  
By various “excess-of-loss” reinsurance contracts, the company 
issuing that policy might keep the liability for only the first 
$1 million of any loss that occurs.  The liability for any loss 
above that amount up to $24 million would be borne by the 
reinsurers of the issuing insurer.  In trade parlance, a company 
that issues large policies but retains relatively little of the 
risk for its own account writes a large gross line but a small 
net line.

     In any reinsurance arrangement, a key question is how the 
premiums paid for the policy should be divided among the various 
“layers” of risk.  In our D & O policy, for example. what part of 
the premium received should be kept by the issuing company to 
compensate it fairly for taking the first $1 million of risk and 
how much should be passed on to the reinsurers to compensate them 
fairly for taking the risk between $1 million and $25 million?

     One way to solve this problem might be deemed the Patrick 
Henry approach: “I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided, 
and that is the lamp of experience.” In other words, how much of 
the total premium would reinsurers have needed in the past to 
compensate them fairly for the losses they actually had to bear?

     Unfortunately, the lamp of experience has always provided 
imperfect illumination for reinsurers because so much of their 
business is “long-tail”, meaning it takes many years before they 
know what their losses are.  Lately, however, the light has not 
only been dim but also grossly misleading in the images it has 
revealed.  That is, the courts’ tendency to grant awards that are 
both huge and lacking in precedent makes reinsurers’ usual 
extrapolations or inferences from past data a formula for 
disaster.  Out with Patrick Henry and in with Pogo: “The future 
ain’t what it used to be.”

     The burgeoning uncertainties of the business, coupled with 
the entry into reinsurance of many unsophisticated participants, 
worked in recent years in favor of issuing companies writing a 
small net line: they were able to keep a far greater percentage 
of the premiums than the risk.  By doing so, the issuing 
companies sometimes made money on business that was distinctly 
unprofitable for the issuing and reinsuring companies combined. 
(This result was not necessarily by intent: issuing companies 
generally knew no more than reinsurers did about the ultimate 
costs that would be experienced at higher layers of risk.) 
Inequities of this sort have been particularly pronounced in 
lines of insurance in which much change was occurring and losses 
were soaring; e.g., professional malpractice, D & 0, products 
liability, etc.  Given these circumstances, it is not surprising 
that issuing companies remained enthusiastic about writing 
business long after premiums became woefully inadequate on a 
gross basis.

     An example of just how disparate results have been for 
issuing companies versus their reinsurers is provided by the 1984 
financials of one of the leaders in large and unusual risks.  In 
that year the company wrote about $6 billion of business and kept 
around $2 1/2 billion of the premiums, or about 40%.  It gave the 
remaining $3 1/2 billion to reinsurers.  On the part of the 
business kept, the company’s underwriting loss was less than $200 
million - an excellent result in that year.  Meanwhile, the part 
laid off produced a loss of over $1.5 billion for the reinsurers.  
Thus, the issuing company wrote at a combined ratio of well under 
110 while its reinsurers, participating in precisely the same 
policies, came in considerably over 140.  This result was not 
attributable to natural catastrophes; it came from run-of-the-
mill insurance losses (occurring, however, in surprising 
frequency and size).  The issuing company’s 1985 report is not 
yet available, but I would predict it will show that dramatically 
unbalanced results continued.

     A few years such as this, and even slow-witted reinsurers 
can lose interest, particularly in explosive lines where the 
proper split in premium between issuer and reinsurer remains 
impossible to even roughly estimate.  The behavior of reinsurers 
finally becomes like that of Mark Twain’s cat: having once sat on 
a hot stove, it never did so again - but it never again sat on a 
cold stove, either.  Reinsurers have had so many unpleasant 
surprises in long-tail casualty lines that many have decided 
(probably correctly) to give up the game entirely, regardless of 
price inducements.  Consequently, there has been a dramatic pull-
back of reinsurance capacity in certain important lines.

     This development has left many issuing companies under 
pressure.  They can no longer commit their reinsurers, time after 
time, for tens of millions per policy as they so easily could do 
only a year or two ago, and they do not have the capital and/or 
appetite to take on large risks for their own account.  For many 
issuing companies, gross capacity has shrunk much closer to net 
capacity - and that is often small, indeed.

     At Berkshire we have never played the lay-it-off-at-a-profit 
game and, until recently, that put us at a severe disadvantage in 
certain lines.  Now the tables are turned: we have the 
underwriting capability whereas others do not.  If we believe the 
price to be right, we are willing to write a net line larger than 
that of any but the largest insurers.  For instance, we are 
perfectly willing to risk losing $10 million of our own money on 
a single event, as long as we believe that the price is right and 