he graciously offered us a copy of the book on Scott Fetzer that his firm had prepared. With his customary tact, Charlie
responded: “I’ll pay $2.5 million not to read it.”
At Berkshire, our carefully-crafted acquisition strategy is simply to wait for the phone to ring. Happily, it
sometimes does so, usually because a manager who sold to us earlier has recommended to a friend that he think about
following suit.

10

Which brings us to the furniture business. Two years ago I recounted how the acquisition of Nebraska Furniture
Mart in 1983 and my subsequent association with the Blumkin family led to follow-on transactions with R. C. Willey
(1995) and Star Furniture (1997). For me, these relationships have all been terrific. Not only did Berkshire acquire
three outstanding retailers; these deals also allowed me to become friends with some of the finest people you will ever
meet.
Naturally, I have persistently asked the Blumkins, Bill Child and Melvyn Wolff whether there are any more out
there like you. Their invariable answer was the Tatelman brothers of New England and their remarkable furniture
business, Jordan’s.
I met Barry and Eliot Tatelman last year and we soon signed an agreement for Berkshire to acquire the company.
Like our three previous furniture acquisitions, this business had long been in the family — in this case since 1927, when
Barry and Eliot’s grandfather began operations in a Boston suburb. Under the brothers’ management, Jordan’s has
grown ever more dominant in its region, becoming the largest furniture retailer in New Hampshire as well as
Massachusetts.
The Tatelmans don’t just sell furniture or manage stores. They also present customers with a dazzling
entertainment experience called “shoppertainment.” A family visiting a store can have a terrific time, while
concurrently viewing an extraordinary selection of merchandise. The business results are also extraordinary: Jordan’s
has the highest sales per square foot of any major furniture operation in the country. I urge you to visit one of their
stores if you are in the Boston area — particularly the one at Natick, which is Jordan’s newest. Bring money.
Barry and Eliot are classy people — just like their counterparts at Berkshire’s three other furniture operations.
When they sold to us, they elected to give each of their employees at least 50¢ for every hour that he or she had worked
for Jordan’s. This payment added up to $9 million, which came from the Tatelmans’ own pockets, not from Berkshire’s.
And Barry and Eliot were thrilled to write the checks.
Each of our furniture operations is number one in its territory. We now sell more furniture than anyone else in
Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Texas, Nebraska, Utah and Idaho. Last year Star’s Melvyn Wolff and his sister, Shirley
Toomim, scored two major successes: a move into San Antonio and a significant enlargement of Star’s store in Austin.
There’s no operation in the furniture retailing business remotely like the one assembled by Berkshire. It’s fun for
me and profitable for you. W. C. Fields once said, “It was a woman who drove me to drink, but unfortunately I never
had the chance to thank her.” I don’t want to make that mistake. My thanks go to Louie, Ron and Irv Blumkin for
getting me started in the furniture business and for unerringly guiding me as we have assembled the group we now have.
************
Now, for our second acquisition deal: It came to us through my good friend, Walter Scott, Jr., chairman of Level
3 Communications and a director of Berkshire. Walter has many other business connections as well, and one of them
is with MidAmerican Energy, a utility company in which he has substantial holdings and on whose board he sits. At
a conference in California that we both attended last September, Walter casually asked me whether Berkshire might be
interested in making a large investment in MidAmerican, and from the start the idea of being in partnership with Walter
struck me as a good one. Upon returning to Omaha, I read some of MidAmerican’s public reports and had two short
meetings with Walter and David Sokol, MidAmerican’s talented and entrepreneurial CEO. I then said that, at an
appropriate price, we would indeed like to make a deal.
Acquisitions in the electric utility industry are complicated by a variety of regulations including the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935. Therefore, we had to structure a transaction that would avoid Berkshire gaining voting
control. Instead we are purchasing an 11% fixed-income security, along with a combination of common stock and
exchangeable preferred that will give Berkshire just under 10% of the voting power of MidAmerican but about 76% of
the equity interest. All told, our investment will be about $2 billion.
Walter characteristically backed up his convictions with real money: He and his family will buy more
MidAmerican stock for cash when the transaction closes, bringing their total investment to about $280 million. Walter
will also be the controlling shareholder of the company, and I can’t think of a better person to hold that post.
Though there are many regulatory constraints in the utility industry, it’s possible that we will make additional
commitments in the field. If we do, the amounts involved could be large.

11

Acquisition Accounting
Once again, I would like to make some comments about accounting, in this case about its application to
acquisitions. This is currently a very contentious topic and, before the dust settles, Congress may even intervene (a truly
terrible idea).
When a company is acquired, generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) currently condone two very
different ways of recording the transaction: “purchase” and “pooling.” In a pooling, stock must be the currency; in a
purchase, payment can be made in either cash or stock. Whatever the currency, managements usually detest purchase
accounting because it almost always requires that a “goodwill” account be established and subsequently written off —
a process that saddles earnings with a large annual charge that normally persists for decades. In contrast, pooling avoids
a goodwill account, which is why managements love it.
Now, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has proposed an end to pooling, and many CEOs are
girding for battle. It will be an important fight, so we’ll venture some opinions. To begin with, we agree with the many
managers who argue that goodwill amortization charges are usually spurious. You’ll find my thinking about this in the
appendix to our 1983 annual report, which is available on our website, and in the Owner’s Manual on pages 55 - 62.
For accounting rules to mandate amortization that will, in the usual case, conflict with reality is deeply
troublesome: Most accounting charges relate to what’s going on, even if they don’t precisely measure it. As an
example, depreciation charges can’t with precision calibrate the decline in value that physical assets suffer, but these
charges do at least describe something that is truly occurring: Physical assets invariably deteriorate. Correspondingly,
obsolescence charges for inventories, bad debt charges for receivables and accruals for warranties are among the charges
that reflect true costs. The annual charges for these expenses can’t be exactly measured, but the necessity for estimating
them is obvious.
In contrast, economic goodwill does not, in many cases, diminish. Indeed, in a great many instances — perhaps
most — it actually grows in value over time. In character, economic goodwill is much like land: The value of both
assets is sure to fluctuate, but the direction in which value is going to go is in no way ordained. At See’s, for example,
economic goodwill has grown, in an irregular but very substantial manner, for 78 years. And, if we run the business
right, growth of that kind will probably continue for at least another 78 years.
To escape from the fiction of goodwill charges, managers embrace the fiction of pooling. This accounting
convention is grounded in the poetic notion that when two rivers merge their streams become indistinguishable. Under
this concept, a company that has been merged into a larger enterprise has not been “purchased” (even though it will
often have received a large “sell-out” premium). Consequently, no goodwill is created, and those pesky subsequent
charges to earnings are eliminated. Instead, the accounting for the ongoing entity is handled as if the businesses had
forever been one unit.
So much for poetry. The reality of merging is usually far different: There is indisputably an acquirer and an
acquiree, and the latter has been “purchased,” no matter how the deal has been structured. If you think otherwise, just
ask employees severed from their jobs which company was the conqueror and which was the conquered. You will find
no confusion. So on this point the FASB is correct: In most mergers, a purchase has been made. Yes, there are some
true “mergers of equals,” but they are few and far between.
Charlie and I believe there’s a reality-based approach that should both satisfy the FASB, which correctly wishes
to record a purchase, and meet the objections of managements to nonsensical charges for diminution of goodwill. We