Duracell by means of a similar exchange set to close in 2015.
************
Now, let’s examine the four major sectors of our operations. Each has vastly different balance sheet and
income characteristics from the others. So we’ll present them as four separate businesses, which is how Charlie and
I view them (though there are important and enduring advantages to having them all under one roof). Our goal is to
provide you with the information we would wish to have if our positions were reversed, with you being the
reporting manager and we the absentee shareholders. (But don’t get any ideas!)
Insurance
Let’s look first at insurance, Berkshire’s core operation. That industry has been the engine that has
propelled our expansion since 1967, when we acquired National Indemnity and its sister company, National Fire &
Marine, for $8.6 million. Though that purchase had monumental consequences for Berkshire, its execution was
simplicity itself.
Jack Ringwalt, a friend of mine who was the controlling shareholder of the two companies, came to my
office saying he would like to sell. Fifteen minutes later, we had a deal. Neither of Jack’s companies had ever had an
audit by a public accounting firm, and I didn’t ask for one. My reasoning: (1) Jack was honest and (2) He was also a
bit quirky and likely to walk away if the deal became at all complicated.
On pages 128-129, we reproduce the 1 1⁄ 2-page purchase agreement we used to finalize the transaction.
That contract was homemade: Neither side used a lawyer. Per page, this has to be Berkshire’s best deal: National
Indemnity today has GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) net worth of $111 billion, which exceeds that
of any other insurer in the world.
One reason we were attracted to the property-casualty business was its financial characteristics: P/C
insurers receive premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases, such as those arising from certain
workers’ compensation accidents, payments can stretch over many decades. This collect-now, pay-later model
leaves P/C companies holding large sums – money we call “float” – that will eventually go to others. Meanwhile,
insurers get to invest this float for their benefit. Though individual policies and claims come and go, the amount of
float an insurer holds usually remains fairly stable in relation to premium volume. Consequently, as our business
grows, so does our float. And how we have grown, as the following table shows:
Year
1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2014

Float (in $ millions)
$
39
237
1,632
27,871
65,832
83,921

Further gains in float will be tough to achieve. On the plus side, GEICO and our new commercial
insurance operation are almost certain to grow at a good clip. National Indemnity’s reinsurance division, however, is
party to a number of run-off contracts whose float drifts downward. If we do in time experience a decline in float, it
will be very gradual – at the outside no more than 3% in any year. The nature of our insurance contracts is such that
we can never be subject to immediate demands for sums that are large compared to our cash resources. This strength
is a key pillar in Berkshire’s economic fortress.

8

If our premiums exceed the total of our expenses and eventual losses, we register an underwriting profit
that adds to the investment income our float produces. When such a profit is earned, we enjoy the use of free money
– and, better yet, get paid for holding it.
Unfortunately, the wish of all insurers to achieve this happy result creates intense competition, so
vigorous indeed that it frequently causes the P/C industry as a whole to operate at a significant underwriting loss.
This loss, in effect, is what the industry pays to hold its float. Competitive dynamics almost guarantee that the
insurance industry, despite the float income all its companies enjoy, will continue its dismal record of earning
subnormal returns on tangible net worth as compared to other American businesses. The prolonged period of low
interest rates our country is now dealing with causes earnings on float to decrease, thereby exacerbating the profit
problems of the industry.
As noted in the first section of this report, Berkshire has now operated at an underwriting profit for
twelve consecutive years, our pre-tax gain for the period having totaled $24 billion. Looking ahead, I believe we
will continue to underwrite profitably in most years. Doing so is the daily focus of all of our insurance managers,
who know that while float is valuable, its benefits can be drowned by poor underwriting results. That message is
given at least lip service by all insurers; at Berkshire it is a religion.
So how does our float affect intrinsic value? When Berkshire’s book value is calculated, the full amount
of our float is deducted as a liability, just as if we had to pay it out tomorrow and could not replenish it. But to think
of float as strictly a liability is incorrect; it should instead be viewed as a revolving fund. Daily, we pay old claims
and related expenses – a huge $22.7 billion to more than six million claimants in 2014 – and that reduces float. Just
as surely, we each day write new business and thereby generate new claims that add to float.
If our revolving float is both costless and long-enduring, which I believe it will be, the true value of this
liability is dramatically less than the accounting liability. Owing $1 that in effect will never leave the premises –
because new business is almost certain to deliver a substitute – is worlds different from owing $1 that will go out the
door tomorrow and not be replaced. The two types of liabilities are treated as equals, however, under GAAP.
A partial offset to this overstated liability is a $15.5 billion “goodwill” asset that we incurred in buying
our insurance companies and that increases book value. In very large part, this goodwill represents the price we paid
for the float-generating capabilities of our insurance operations. The cost of the goodwill, however, has no bearing
on its true value. For example, if an insurance company sustains large and prolonged underwriting losses, any
goodwill asset carried on the books should be deemed valueless, whatever its original cost.
Fortunately, that does not describe Berkshire. Charlie and I believe the true economic value of our
insurance goodwill – what we would happily pay for float of similar quality were we to purchase an insurance
operation possessing it – to be far in excess of its historic carrying value. Under present accounting rules (with
which we agree) this excess value will never be entered on our books. But I can assure you that it’s real. That’s one
reason – a huge reason – why we believe Berkshire’s intrinsic business value substantially exceeds its book value.
************
Berkshire’s attractive insurance economics exist only because we have some terrific managers running
disciplined operations that possess hard-to-replicate business models. Let me tell you about the major units.
First by float size is the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, managed by Ajit Jain. Ajit insures risks
that no one else has the desire or the capital to take on. His operation combines capacity, speed, decisiveness and,
most important, brains in a manner unique in the insurance business. Yet he never exposes Berkshire to risks that
are inappropriate in relation to our resources.

9

Indeed, we are far more conservative in avoiding risk than most large insurers. For example, if the
insurance industry should experience a $250 billion loss from some mega-catastrophe – a loss about triple anything
it has ever experienced – Berkshire as a whole would likely record a significant profit for the year because of its
many streams of earnings. We would also remain awash in cash and be looking for large opportunities in a market
that might well have gone into shock. Meanwhile, other major insurers and reinsurers would be far in the red, if not
facing insolvency.
Ajit’s underwriting skills are unmatched. His mind, moreover, is an idea factory that is always looking
for more lines of business he can add to his current assortment. Last year I told you about his formation of Berkshire
Hathaway Specialty Insurance (“BHSI”). This initiative took us into commercial insurance, where we were instantly
welcomed by both major insurance brokers and corporate risk managers throughout America. Previously, we had
written only a few specialized lines of commercial insurance.
BHSI is led by Peter Eastwood, an experienced underwriter who is widely respected in the insurance
world. During 2014, Peter expanded his talented group, moving into both international business and new lines of
insurance. We repeat last year’s prediction that BHSI will be a major asset for Berkshire, one that will generate
volume in the billions within a few years.
************
We have another reinsurance powerhouse in General Re, managed by Tad Montross.
At bottom, a sound insurance operation needs to adhere to four disciplines. It must (1) understand all
exposures that might cause a policy to incur losses; (2) conservatively assess the likelihood of any exposure actually