money, which means that we have no counterparty risk.
Second, accounting rules for our derivative contracts differ from those applying to our investment
portfolio. In that portfolio, changes in value are applied to the net worth shown on Berkshire’s balance
sheet, but do not affect earnings unless we sell (or write down) a holding. Changes in the value of a
derivative contract, however, must be applied each quarter to earnings.
Thus, our derivative positions will sometimes cause large swings in reported earnings, even
though Charlie and I might believe the intrinsic value of these positions has changed little. He and I will
not be bothered by these swings – even though they could easily amount to $1 billion or more in a quarter –
and we hope you won’t be either. You will recall that in our catastrophe insurance business, we are always
ready to trade increased volatility in reported earnings in the short run for greater gains in net worth in the
long run. That is our philosophy in derivatives as well.
************
The U.S. dollar weakened further in 2007 against major currencies, and it’s no mystery why:
Americans like buying products made elsewhere more than the rest of the world likes buying products
made in the U.S. Inevitably, that causes America to ship about $2 billion of IOUs and assets daily to the
rest of the world. And over time, that puts pressure on the dollar.

16

When the dollar falls, it both makes our products cheaper for foreigners to buy and their products
more expensive for U.S. citizens. That’s why a falling currency is supposed to cure a trade deficit. Indeed,
the U.S. deficit has undoubtedly been tempered by the large drop in the dollar. But ponder this: In 2002
when the Euro averaged 94.6¢, our trade deficit with Germany (the fifth largest of our trading partners) was
$36 billion, whereas in 2007, with the Euro averaging $1.37, our deficit with Germany was up to $45
billion. Similarly, the Canadian dollar averaged 64¢ in 2002 and 93¢ in 2007. Yet our trade deficit with
Canada rose as well, from $50 billion in 2002 to $64 billion in 2007. So far, at least, a plunging dollar has
not done much to bring our trade activity into balance.
There’s been much talk recently of sovereign wealth funds and how they are buying large pieces
of American businesses. This is our doing, not some nefarious plot by foreign governments. Our trade
equation guarantees massive foreign investment in the U.S. When we force-feed $2 billion daily to the rest
of the world, they must invest in something here. Why should we complain when they choose stocks over
bonds?
Our country’s weakening currency is not the fault of OPEC, China, etc. Other developed
countries rely on imported oil and compete against Chinese imports just as we do. In developing a sensible
trade policy, the U.S. should not single out countries to punish or industries to protect. Nor should we take
actions likely to evoke retaliatory behavior that will reduce America’s exports, true trade that benefits both
our country and the rest of the world.
Our legislators should recognize, however, that the current imbalances are unsustainable and
should therefore adopt policies that will materially reduce them sooner rather than later. Otherwise our $2
billion daily of force-fed dollars to the rest of the world may produce global indigestion of an unpleasant
sort. (For other comments about the unsustainability of our trade deficits, see Alan Greenspan’s comments
on November 19, 2004, the Federal Open Market Committee’s minutes of June 29, 2004, and Ben
Bernanke’s statement on September 11, 2007.)
************
At Berkshire we held only one direct currency position during 2007. That was in – hold your
breath – the Brazilian real. Not long ago, swapping dollars for reals would have been unthinkable. After
all, during the past century five versions of Brazilian currency have, in effect, turned into confetti. As has
been true in many countries whose currencies have periodically withered and died, wealthy Brazilians
sometimes stashed large sums in the U.S. to preserve their wealth.
But any Brazilian who followed this apparently prudent course would have lost half his net worth
over the past five years. Here’s the year-by-year record (indexed) of the real versus the dollar from the end
of 2002 to yearend 2007: 100; 122; 133; 152; 166; 199. Every year the real went up and the dollar fell.
Moreover, during much of this period the Brazilian government was actually holding down the value of the
real and supporting our currency by buying dollars in the market.
Our direct currency positions have yielded $2.3 billion of pre-tax profits over the past five years,
and in addition we have profited by holding bonds of U.S. companies that are denominated in other
currencies. For example, in 2001 and 2002 we purchased €310 million Amazon.com, Inc. 6 7/8 of 2010 at
57% of par. At the time, Amazon bonds were priced as “junk” credits, though they were anything but.
(Yes, Virginia, you can occasionally find markets that are ridiculously inefficient – or at least you can find
them anywhere except at the finance departments of some leading business schools.)
The Euro denomination of the Amazon bonds was a further, and important, attraction for us. The
Euro was at 95¢ when we bought in 2002. Therefore, our cost in dollars came to only $169 million. Now
the bonds sell at 102% of par and the Euro is worth $1.47. In 2005 and 2006 some of our bonds were
called and we received $253 million for them. Our remaining bonds were valued at $162 million at
yearend. Of our $246 million of realized and unrealized gain, about $118 million is attributable to the fall
in the dollar. Currencies do matter.

17

At Berkshire, we will attempt to further increase our stream of direct and indirect foreign earnings.
Even if we are successful, however, our assets and earnings will always be concentrated in the U.S.
Despite our country’s many imperfections and unrelenting problems of one sort or another, America’s rule
of law, market-responsive economic system, and belief in meritocracy are almost certain to produce evergrowing prosperity for its citizens.
************
As I have told you before, we have for some time been well-prepared for CEO succession because
we have three outstanding internal candidates. The board knows exactly whom it would pick if I were to
become unavailable, either because of death or diminishing abilities. And that would still leave the board
with two backups.
Last year I told you that we would also promptly complete a succession plan for the investment
job at Berkshire, and we have indeed now identified four candidates who could succeed me in managing
investments. All manage substantial sums currently, and all have indicated a strong interest in coming to
Berkshire if called. The board knows the strengths of the four and would expect to hire one or more if the
need arises. The candidates are young to middle-aged, well-to-do to rich, and all wish to work for
Berkshire for reasons that go beyond compensation.
(I’ve reluctantly discarded the notion of my continuing to manage the portfolio after my death –
abandoning my hope to give new meaning to the term “thinking outside the box.”)
Fanciful Figures – How Public Companies Juice Earnings
Former Senator Alan Simpson famously said: “Those who travel the high road in Washington
need not fear heavy traffic.” If he had sought truly deserted streets, however, the Senator should have
looked to Corporate America’s accounting.
An important referendum on which road businesses prefer occurred in 1994. America’s CEOs had
just strong-armed the U.S. Senate into ordering the Financial Accounting Standards Board to shut up, by a
vote that was 88-9. Before that rebuke the FASB had shown the audacity – by unanimous agreement, no
less – to tell corporate chieftains that the stock options they were being awarded represented a form of
compensation and that their value should be recorded as an expense.
After the senators voted, the FASB – now educated on accounting principles by the Senate’s 88
closet CPAs – decreed that companies could choose between two methods of reporting on options. The
preferred treatment would be to expense their value, but it would also be allowable for companies to ignore
the expense as long as their options were issued at market value.
A moment of truth had now arrived for America’s CEOs, and their reaction was not a pretty sight.
During the next six years, exactly two of the 500 companies in the S&P chose the preferred route. CEOs of
the rest opted for the low road, thereby ignoring a large and obvious expense in order to report higher
“earnings.” I’m sure some of them also felt that if they opted for expensing, their directors might in future
years think twice before approving the mega-grants the managers longed for.
It turned out that for many CEOs even the low road wasn’t good enough. Under the weakened