the customer’s experience with something old.
Charlie and I journeyed throughout the nation to join with many of these individuals or their families. On the
West Coast, we began the routine in 1972 with our purchase of See’s Candy. A full century ago, Mary See set out to
deliver an age-old product that she had reinvented with special recipes. Added to her business plan were quaint stores
staffed by friendly salespeople. Her first small outlet in Los Angeles eventually led to several hundred shops, spread
throughout the West.
Today, Mrs. See’s creations continue to delight customers while providing life-long employment for
thousands of women and men. Berkshire’s job is simply not to meddle with the company’s success. When a business
manufactures and distributes a non-essential consumer product, the customer is the boss. And, after 100 years, the
customer’s message to Berkshire remains clear: “Don’t mess with my candy.” (The website is https://www.sees.com/;
try the peanut brittle.)
Let’s move across the continent to Washington, D.C. In 1936, Leo Goodwin, along with his wife, Lillian,
became convinced that auto insurance – a standardized product customarily purchased from agents – could be sold
directly at a much lower price. Armed with $100,000, the pair took on giant insurers possessing 1,000 times or more
their capital. Government Employees Insurance Company (later shortened to GEICO) was on its way.
By luck, I was exposed to the company’s potential a full 70 years ago. It instantly became my first love (of
an investment sort). You know the rest of the story: Berkshire eventually became the 100% owner of GEICO, which
at 84 years of age is constantly fine-tuning – but not changing – the vision of Leo and Lillian.
There has been, however, a change in the company’s size. In 1937, its first full year of operation, GEICO did
$238,288 of business. Last year the figure was $35 billion.
************
Today, with much of finance, media, government and tech located in coastal areas, it’s easy to overlook the
many miracles occurring in middle America. Let’s focus on two communities that provide stunning illustrations of
the talent and ambition existing throughout our country.
You will not be surprised that I begin with Omaha.
In 1940, Jack Ringwalt, a graduate of Omaha’s Central High School (the alma mater as well of Charlie, my
dad, my first wife, our three children and two grandchildren), decided to start a property/casualty insurance company
funded by $125,000 in capital.
Jack’s dream was preposterous, requiring his pipsqueak operation – somewhat pompously christened as
National Indemnity – to compete with giant insurers, all of which operated with abundant capital. Additionally, those
competitors were solidly entrenched with nationwide networks of well-funded and long-established local agents.
Under Jack’s plan, National Indemnity, unlike GEICO, would itself use whatever agencies deigned to accept it and
consequently enjoy no cost advantage in its acquisition of business. To overcome those formidable handicaps,
National Indemnity focused on “odd-ball” risks, which were deemed unimportant by the “big boys.” And, improbably,
the strategy succeeded.
Jack was honest, shrewd, likeable and a bit quirky. In particular, he disliked regulators. When he periodically
became annoyed with their supervision, he would feel an urge to sell his company.

8

Fortunately, I was nearby on one of those occasions. Jack liked the idea of joining Berkshire, and we made a
deal in 1967, taking all of 15 minutes to reach a handshake. I never asked for an audit.
Today National Indemnity is the only company in the world prepared to insure certain giant risks. And, yes,
it remains based in Omaha, a few miles from Berkshire’s home office.
Over the years, we have purchased four additional businesses from Omaha families, the best known among
them being Nebraska Furniture Mart (“NFM”). The company’s founder, Rose Blumkin (“Mrs. B”), arrived in Seattle
in 1915 as a Russian emigrant, unable to read or speak English. She settled in Omaha several years later and by 1936
had saved $2,500 with which to start a furniture store.
Competitors and suppliers ignored her, and for a time their judgment seemed correct: World War II stalled
her business, and at yearend 1946, the company’s net worth had grown to only $72,264. Cash, both in the till and on
deposit, totaled $50 (that’s not a typo).
One invaluable asset, however, went unrecorded in the 1946 figures: Louie Blumkin, Mrs. B’s only son, had
rejoined the store after four years in the U.S. Army. Louie fought at Normandy’s Omaha Beach following the D-Day
invasion, earned a Purple Heart for injuries sustained in the Battle of the Bulge, and finally sailed home in November
1945.
Once Mrs. B and Louie were reunited, there was no stopping NFM. Driven by their dream, mother and son
worked days, nights and weekends. The result was a retailing miracle.
By 1983, the pair had created a business worth $60 million. That year, on my birthday, Berkshire purchased
80% of NFM, again without an audit. I counted on Blumkin family members to run the business; the third and fourth
generation do so today. Mrs. B, it should be noted, worked daily until she was 103 – a ridiculously premature
retirement age as judged by Charlie and me.
NFM now owns the three largest home-furnishings stores in the U.S. Each set a sales record in 2020, a feat
achieved despite the closing of NFM’s stores for more than six weeks because of COVID-19.
A post-script to this story says it all: When Mrs. B’s large family gathered for holiday meals, she always
asked that they sing a song before eating. Her selection never varied: Irving Berlin’s “God Bless America.”
************
Let’s move somewhat east to Knoxville, the third largest city in Tennessee. There, Berkshire has ownership
in two remarkable companies – Clayton Homes (100% owned) and Pilot Travel Centers (38% owned now, but headed
for 80% in 2023).
Each company was started by a young man who had graduated from the University of Tennessee and stayed
put in Knoxville. Neither had a meaningful amount of capital nor wealthy parents.
But, so what? Today, Clayton and Pilot each have annual pre-tax earnings of more than $1 billion. Together
they employ about 47,000 men and women.
Jim Clayton, after several other business ventures, founded Clayton Homes on a shoestring in 1956, and “Big
Jim” Haslam started what became Pilot Travel Centers in 1958 by purchasing a service station for $6,000. Each of the
men later brought into the business a son with the same passion, values and brains as his father. Sometimes there is a
magic to genes.

9

“Big Jim” Haslam, now 90, has recently authored an inspirational book in which he relates how Jim Clayton’s
son, Kevin, encouraged the Haslams to sell a large portion of Pilot to Berkshire. Every retailer knows that satisfied
customers are a store’s best salespeople. That’s true when businesses are changing hands as well.
************
When you next fly over Knoxville or Omaha, tip your hat to the Claytons, Haslams and Blumkins as well as
to the army of successful entrepreneurs who populate every part of our country. These builders needed America’s
framework for prosperity – a unique experiment when it was crafted in 1789 – to achieve their potential. In turn,
America needed citizens like Jim C., Jim H., Mrs. B and Louie to accomplish the miracles our founding fathers sought.
Today, many people forge similar miracles throughout the world, creating a spread of prosperity that benefits
all of humanity. In its brief 232 years of existence, however, there has been no incubator for unleashing human
potential like America. Despite some severe interruptions, our country’s economic progress has been breathtaking.
Beyond that, we retain our constitutional aspiration of becoming “a more perfect union.” Progress on that
front has been slow, uneven and often discouraging. We have, however, moved forward and will continue to do so.
Our unwavering conclusion: Never bet against America.
The Berkshire Partnership
Berkshire is a Delaware corporation, and our directors must follow the state’s laws. Among them is a
requirement that board members must act in the best interest of the corporation and its stockholders. Our directors
embrace that doctrine.
In addition, of course, Berkshire directors want the company to delight its customers, to develop and reward
the talents of its 360,000 associates, to behave honorably with lenders and to be regarded as a good citizen of the many
cities and states in which we operate. We value these four important constituencies.
None of these groups, however, have a vote in determining such matters as dividends, strategic direction,
CEO selection, or acquisitions and divestitures. Responsibilities like those fall solely on Berkshire’s directors, who
must faithfully represent the long-term interests of the corporation and its owners.
Beyond legal requirements, Charlie and I feel a special obligation to the many individual shareholders of
Berkshire. A bit of personal history may help you to understand our unusual attachment and how it shapes our
behavior.
************
Before my Berkshire years, I managed money for many individuals through a series of partnerships, the first