rather than physical: plants or companies need not be shut; only 
the willingness of underwriters to sign their names need be 
curtailed.

     This contraction will not happen because of generally poor 
profit levels.  Bad profits produce much hand-wringing and 
finger-pointing.  But they do not lead major sources of insurance 
capacity to turn their backs on very large chunks of business, 
thereby sacrificing market share and industry significance.

     Instead, major capacity withdrawals require a shock factor 
such as a natural or financial “megadisaster”.  One might occur 
tomorrow - or many years from now.  The insurance business - even 
taking investment income into account - will not be particularly 
profitable in the meantime.

     When supply ultimately contracts, large amounts of business 
will be available for the few with large capital capacity, a 
willingness to commit it, and an in-place distribution system.  
We would expect great opportunities for our insurance 
subsidiaries at such a time.

     During 1982, our insurance underwriting deteriorated far 
more than did the industry’s.  From a profit position well above 
average, we, slipped to a performance modestly below average.  
The biggest swing was in National Indemnity’s traditional 
coverages.  Lines that have been highly profitable for us in the 
past are now priced at levels that guarantee underwriting losses.  
In 1983 we expect our insurance group to record an average 
performance in an industry in which average is very poor.

     Two of our stars, Milt Thornton at Cypress and Floyd Taylor 
at Kansas Fire and Casualty, continued their outstanding records 
of producing an underwriting profit every year since joining us.  
Both Milt and Floyd simply are incapable of being average.  They 
maintain a passionately proprietary attitude toward their 
operations and have developed a business culture centered upon 
unusual cost-consciousness and customer service.  It shows on 
their scorecards.

     During 1982, parent company responsibility for most of our 
insurance operations was given to Mike Goldberg.  Planning, 
recruitment, and monitoring all have shown significant 
improvement since Mike replaced me in this role.

     GEICO continues to be managed with a zeal for efficiency and 
value to the customer that virtually guarantees unusual success.  
Jack Byrne and Bill Snyder are achieving the most elusive of 
human goals - keeping things simple and remembering what you set 
out to do.  In Lou Simpson, additionally, GEICO has the best 
investment manager in the property-casualty business.  We are 
happy with every aspect of this operation.  GEICO is a 
magnificent illustration of the high-profit exception we 
described earlier in discussing commodity industries with over-
capacity - a company with a wide and sustainable cost advantage.  
Our 35% interest in GEICO represents about $250 million of 
premium volume, an amount considerably greater than all of the 
direct volume we produce.
Issuance of Equity
Berkshire and Blue Chip are considering merger in 1983.  If 
it takes place, it will involve an exchange of stock based upon 
an identical valuation method applied to both companies.  The one 
other significant issuance of shares by Berkshire or its 
affiliated companies that occurred during present management’s 
tenure was in the 1978 merger of Berkshire with Diversified 
Retailing Company.

     Our share issuances follow a simple basic rule: we will not 
issue shares unless we receive as much intrinsic business value 
as we give.  Such a policy might seem axiomatic.  Why, you might 
ask, would anyone issue dollar bills in exchange for fifty-cent 
pieces?  Unfortunately, many corporate managers have been willing 
to do just that.

     The first choice of these managers in making acquisitions 
may be to use cash or debt.  But frequently the CEO’s cravings 
outpace cash and credit resources (certainly mine always have).  
Frequently, also, these cravings occur when his own stock is 
selling far below intrinsic business value.  This state of 
affairs produces a moment of truth.  At that point, as Yogi Berra 
has said, “You can observe a lot just by watching.” For 
shareholders then will find which objective the management truly 
prefers - expansion of domain or maintenance of owners’ wealth.

     The need to choose between these objectives occurs for some 
simple reasons.  Companies often sell in the stock market below 
their intrinsic business value.  But when a company wishes to 
sell out completely, in a negotiated transaction, it inevitably 
wants to - and usually can - receive full business value in 
whatever kind of currency the value is to be delivered.  If cash 
is to be used in payment, the seller’s calculation of value 
received couldn’t be easier.  If stock of the buyer is to be the 
currency, the seller’s calculation is still relatively easy: just 
figure the market value in cash of what is to be received in 
stock.

     Meanwhile, the buyer wishing to use his own stock as 
currency for the purchase has no problems if the stock is selling 
in the market at full intrinsic value.

     But suppose it is selling at only half intrinsic value.  In 
that case, the buyer is faced with the unhappy prospect of using 
a substantially undervalued currency to make its purchase.

     Ironically, were the buyer to instead be a seller of its 
entire business, it too could negotiate for, and probably get, 
full intrinsic business value.  But when the buyer makes a 
partial sale of itself -
and that is what the issuance of shares 
to make an acquisition amounts to
- it can customarily get no 
higher value set on its shares than the market chooses to grant 
it.

     The acquirer who nevertheless barges ahead ends up using an 
undervalued (market value) currency to pay for a fully valued 
(negotiated value) property.  In effect, the acquirer must give 
up $2 of value to receive $1 of value.  Under such circumstances, 
a marvelous business purchased at a fair sales price becomes a 
terrible buy.  For gold valued as gold cannot be purchased 
intelligently through the utilization of gold - or even silver - 
valued as lead.

     If, however, the thirst for size and action is strong 
enough, the acquirer’s manager will find ample rationalizations 
for such a value-destroying issuance of stock.  Friendly 
investment bankers will reassure him as to the soundness of his 
actions. (Don’t ask the barber whether you need a haircut.)

     A few favorite rationalizations employed by stock-issuing 
managements follow:

     (a) “The company we’re buying is going to be worth a lot 
         more in the future.” (Presumably so is the interest in 
         the old business that is being traded away; future 
         prospects are implicit in the business valuation 
         process.  If 2X is issued for X, the imbalance still 
         exists when both parts double in business value.)

     (b) “We have to grow.” (Who, it might be asked, is the “we”?  
         For present shareholders, the reality is that all 
         existing businesses shrink when shares are issued.  Were 
         Berkshire to issue shares tomorrow for an acquisition, 
         Berkshire would own everything that it now owns plus the 
         new business, but
your
interest in such hard-to-match 
         businesses as See’s Candy Shops, National Indemnity, 
         etc. would automatically be reduced.  If (1) your family 
         owns a 120-acre farm and (2)  you invite a neighbor with 
         60 acres of comparable land to merge his farm into an 
         equal partnership - with you to be managing partner, 
         then (3) your managerial domain will have grown to 180 
         acres but you will have permanently shrunk by 25% your 
         family’s ownership interest in both acreage and crops.  
         Managers who want to expand their domain at the expense 
         of owners might better consider a career in government.)

     (c) “Our stock is undervalued and we’ve minimized its use in 
         this deal - but we need to give the selling shareholders 
         51% in stock and 49% in cash so that certain of those 
         shareholders can get the tax-free exchange they want.” 
         (This argument acknowledges that it is beneficial to the 
         acquirer to hold down the issuance of shares, and we like 
         that.  But if it hurts the old owners to utilize shares 
         on a 100% basis, it very likely hurts on a 51% basis.  
         After all, a man is not charmed if a spaniel defaces his 
         lawn, just because it’s a spaniel and not a St. Bernard.  
         And the wishes of sellers can’t be the determinant of the 
         best interests of the buyer - what would happen if, 
         heaven forbid, the seller insisted that as a condition of 
         merger the CEO of the acquirer be replaced?)

     There are three ways to avoid destruction of value for old 
owners when shares are issued for acquisitions.  One is to have a 
true business-value-for-business-value merger, such as the 
Berkshire-Blue Chip combination is intended to be.  Such a merger 
attempts to be fair to shareholders of
both
parties, with each 
receiving just as much as it gives in terms of intrinsic business 
value.  The Dart Industries-Kraft and Nabisco Standard Brands 
mergers appeared to be of this type, but they are the exceptions.  
It’s not that acquirers wish to avoid such deals; it’s just that 
they are very hard to do.

     The second route presents itself when the acquirer’s stock 
sells at or above its intrinsic business value.  In that 