First Empire, and like being his partner on any scale.

     Our American Express preferred is not a normal fixed-income 
security. Rather it is a "Perc," which carries a fixed dividend of 
8.85% on our $300 million cost. Absent one exception mentioned 
later, our preferred must be converted three years after issuance, 
into a maximum of 12,244,898 shares. If necessary, a downward 
adjustment in the conversion ratio will be made in order to limit 
to $414 million the total value of the common we receive. Though 
there is thus a ceiling on the value of the common stock that we 
will receive upon conversion, there is no floor. The terms of the 
preferred, however, include a provision allowing us to extend the 
conversion date by one year if the common stock is below $24.50 on 
the third anniversary of our purchase.

     Overall, our fixed-income investments have treated us well, 
both over the long term and recently. We have realized large 
capital gains from these holdings, including about $152 million in 
1991. Additionally, our after-tax yields have considerably exceeded 
those earned by most fixed-income portfolios.

     Nevertheless, we have had some surprises, none greater than 
the need for me to involve myself personally and intensely in the 
Salomon situation. As I write this letter, I am also writing a 
letter for inclusion in Salomon's annual report and I refer you to 
that report for an update on the company. (Write to: Corporate 
Secretary, Salomon Inc, Seven World Trade Center, New York, NY  
10048) Despite the company's travails, Charlie and I believe our 
Salomon preferred stock increased slightly in value during 1991.  
Lower interest rates and a higher price for Salomon's common 
produced this result.

     Last year I told you that our USAir investment "should work 
out all right unless the industry is decimated during the next few 
years." Unfortunately 1991 was a decimating period for the 
industry, as Midway, Pan Am and America West all entered 
bankruptcy. (Stretch the period to 14 months and you can add 
Continental and TWA.)

     The low valuation that we have given USAir in our table 
reflects the risk that the industry will remain unprofitable for 
virtually all participants in it, a risk that is far from 
negligible. The risk is heightened by the fact that the courts have 
been encouraging bankrupt carriers to continue operating. These 
carriers can temporarily charge fares that are below the industry's 
costs because the bankrupts don't incur the capital costs faced by 
their solvent brethren and because they can fund their losses - and 
thereby stave off shutdown - by selling off assets. This burn-the-
furniture-to-provide-firewood approach to fare-setting by bankrupt 
carriers contributes to the toppling of previously-marginal 
carriers, creating a domino effect that is perfectly designed to 
bring the industry to its knees.

     Seth Schofield, who became CEO of USAir in 1991, is making 
major adjustments in the airline's operations in order to improve 
its chances of being one of the few industry survivors. There is no 
tougher job in corporate America than running an airline: Despite 
the huge amounts of equity capital that have been injected into it, 
the industry, in aggregate, has posted a net loss since its birth 
after Kitty Hawk.  Airline managers need brains, guts, and 
experience - and Seth possesses all three of these attributes.
Miscellaneous
About 97.7% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 
1991 shareholder-designated contributions program. Contributions 
made through the program were $6.8 million, and 2,630 charities 
were recipients.

     We suggest that new shareholders read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on pages 
48-49. To participate in future programs, you must make sure your 
shares are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the 
nominee name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so 
registered on August 31, 1992 will be ineligible for the 1992 
program.

     In addition to the shareholder-designated contributions that 
Berkshire distributes, managers of our operating businesses make 
contributions, including merchandise, averaging about $1.5 million 
annually.  These contributions support local charities, such as The 
United Way, and produce roughly commensurate benefits for our 
businesses.

     However, neither our operating managers nor officers of the 
parent company use Berkshire funds to make contributions to broad 
national programs or charitable activities of special personal 
interest to them, except to the extent they do so as shareholders. 
If your employees, including your CEO, wish to give to their alma 
maters or other institutions to which they feel a personal 
attachment, we believe they should use their own money, not yours.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     The faithful will notice that, for the first time in some 
years, Charlie's annual letter to Wesco shareholders is not 
reprinted in this report. Since his letter is relatively barebones 
this year, Charlie said he saw no point in including it in these 
pages; my own recommendation, however, is that you get a copy of 
the Wesco report. Simply write: Corporate Secretary, Wesco 
Financial Corporation, 315 East Colorado Boulevard, Pasadena, CA  
91101.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Malcolm G. Chace, Jr., now 88, has decided not to stand for 
election as a director this year.  But the association of the Chace 
family with Berkshire will not end: Malcolm III (Kim), Malcolm's 
son, will be nominated to replace him.

     In 1931, Malcolm went to work for Berkshire Fine Spinning 
Associates, which merged with Hathaway Manufacturing Co. in 1955 to 
form our present company. Two years later, Malcolm became Berkshire 
Hathaway's Chairman, a position he held as well in early 1965 when 
he made it possible for Buffett Partnership, Ltd. to buy a key 
block of Berkshire stock owned by some of his relatives.  This 
purchase gave our partnership effective control of the company. 
Malcolm's immediate family meanwhile kept its Berkshire stock and 
for the last 27 years has had the second-largest holding in the 
company, trailing only the Buffett family. Malcolm has been a joy 
to work with and we are delighted that the long-running 
relationship between the Chace family and Berkshire is continuing 
to a new generation.


                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     The annual meeting this year will be held at the Orpheum 
Theater in downtown Omaha at 9:30 a.m. on Monday, April 27, 1992. 
Attendance last year grew to a record 1,550, but that still leaves 
plenty of room at the Orpheum.

     We recommend that you get your hotel reservations early at one 
of these hotels: (1) The Radisson-Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) 
but nice hotel across the street from the Orpheum; (2) the much 
larger Red Lion Hotel, located about a five-minute walk from the 
Orpheum; or (3) the Marriott, located in West Omaha about 100 yards 
from Borsheim's and a twenty minute drive from downtown. We will 
have buses at the Marriott that will leave at 8:30 and 8:45 for the 
meeting and return after it ends.

     Charlie and I always enjoy the meeting, and we hope you can 
make it. The quality of our shareholders is reflected in the 
quality of the questions we get: We have never attended an annual 
meeting anywhere that features such a consistently high level of 
intelligent, owner-related questions.

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can 
obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting. With 
the admission card, we will enclose information about parking 
facilities located near the Orpheum. If you are driving, come a 
little early.  Nearby lots fill up quickly and you may have to 
walk a few blocks.

     As usual, we will have buses to take you to Nebraska Furniture 
Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and to take you from there to 
downtown hotels or the airport later. I hope that you will allow 
plenty of time to fully explore the attractions of both stores. 
Those of you arriving early can visit the Furniture Mart any day of 
the week; it is open from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Saturdays and 
from noon to 5:30 p.m. on Sundays. While there, stop at the See's 
Candy Cart and find out for yourself why Americans ate 26 million 
pounds of See's products last year.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday, but we will be open 
for shareholders and their guests from noon to 6 p.m. on Sunday, 
April 26. Borsheim's will also have a special party the previous 
evening at which shareholders are welcome. (You must, however, 
write Mrs. Gladys Kaiser at our office for an invitation.) On 
display that evening will be a 150-year retrospective of the most 
exceptional timepieces made by Patek Philippe, including watches 
once owned by Queen Victoria, Pope Pius IX, Rudyard Kipling, Madame 
Curie and Albert Einstein. The centerpiece of the exhibition will 
be a $5 million watch whose design and manufacture required nine 
years of labor by Patek Philippe craftsmen.  Along with the rest of 
the collection, this watch will be on display at the store on 