at Rosenblatt Stadium. Your Chairman, whose breaking ball had the crowd buzzing last year, will again take
the mound. This year I plan to introduce my “flutterball.” It’s a real source of irritation to me that many view
our annual meeting as a financial event rather than the sports classic I consider it to be. Once the world sees
my flutterball, that misperception will be erased.
Our proxy statement includes instructions about obtaining tickets to the game and also a large quantity of
other information that should help you to enjoy your visit. I particularly urge the 60,000 shareholders that we
gained through the Gen Re merger to join us. Come and meet your fellow capitalists.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
It wouldn’t be right to close without a word about the 11.8 people who work with me in Berkshire’s
corporate office. In addition to handling the myriad of tax, regulatory and administrative matters that come with
owning dozens of businesses, this group efficiently and cheerfully manages various special projects, some of which
generate hundreds of inquiries. Here’s a sample of what went on in 1998:

•

6,106 shareholders designated 3,880 charities to receive contributions.

•

Kelly Muchemore processed about 17,500 admission tickets for the annual meeting, along with
orders and checks for 3,200 baseball tickets.

•

Kelly and Marc Hamburg produced and directed the Aksarben extravaganza, a job that required
them to arrange the presentations made by our subsidiaries, prepare our movie, and sometimes lend
people a hand with travel and lodging.

•

Debbie Bosanek satisfied the varying needs of the 46 media organizations (13 of them non-U.S.)
that covered the meeting, and meanwhile, as always, skillfully assisted me in every aspect of my
job.

•

Debbie and Marc assembled the data for our annual report and oversaw the production and
distribution of 165,000 copies. (This year the number will be 325,000.)

•

Marc handled 95% of the details — and much of the substance — connected with our completing
two major mergers.

•

Kelly, Debbie and Deb Ray dealt efficiently with tens of thousands of requests for annual reports
and financial information that came through the office.

You and I are paying for only 11.8 people, but we are getting what would at most places be the output of
100. To all of the 11.8, my thanks.

March 1, 1999
