required all of my savings. (The Dow Jones Industrial Average that day closed at 99, a fact that should scream to you:
Never bet against America.)
After my initial plunge, I always kept at least 80% of my net worth in equities. My favored status throughout
that period was 100% – and still is. Berkshire’s current 80%-or-so position in businesses is a consequence of my
failure to find entire companies or small portions thereof (that is, marketable stocks) which meet our criteria for longterm holding.
Charlie and I have endured similar cash-heavy positions from time to time in the past. These periods are
never pleasant; they are also never permanent. And, fortunately, we have had a mildly attractive alternative during
2020 and 2021 for deploying capital. Read on.
Share Repurchases
There are three ways that we can increase the value of your investment. The first is always front and center
in our minds: Increase the long-term earning power of Berkshire’s controlled businesses through internal growth or
by making acquisitions. Today, internal opportunities deliver far better returns than acquisitions. The size of those
opportunities, however, is small compared to Berkshire’s resources.
Our second choice is to buy non-controlling part-interests in the many good or great businesses that are
publicly traded. From time to time, such possibilities are both numerous and blatantly attractive. Today, though, we
find little that excites us.
That’s largely because of a truism: Long-term interest rates that are low push the prices of all productive
investments upward, whether these are stocks, apartments, farms, oil wells, whatever. Other factors influence
valuations as well, but interest rates will always be important.
Our final path to value creation is to repurchase Berkshire shares. Through that simple act, we increase your
share of the many controlled and non-controlled businesses Berkshire owns. When the price/value equation is right,
this path is the easiest and most certain way for us to increase your wealth. (Alongside the accretion of value to
continuing shareholders, a couple of other parties gain: Repurchases are modestly beneficial to the seller of the
repurchased shares and to society as well.)

8

Periodically, as alternative paths become unattractive, repurchases make good sense for Berkshire’s owners.
During the past two years, we therefore repurchased 9% of the shares that were outstanding at yearend 2019 for a total
cost of $51.7 billion. That expenditure left our continuing shareholders owning about 10% more of all Berkshire
businesses, whether these are wholly-owned (such as BNSF and GEICO) or partly-owned (such as Coca-Cola and
Moody’s).
I want to underscore that for Berkshire repurchases to make sense, our shares must offer appropriate value.
We don’t want to overpay for the shares of other companies, and it would be value-destroying if we were to overpay
when we are buying Berkshire. As of February 23, 2022, since yearend we repurchased additional shares at a cost of
$1.2 billion. Our appetite remains large but will always remain price-dependent.
It should be noted that Berkshire’s buyback opportunities are limited because of its high-class investor base.
If our shares were heavily held by short-term speculators, both price volatility and transaction volumes would
materially increase. That kind of reshaping would offer us far greater opportunities for creating value by making
repurchases. Nevertheless, Charlie and I far prefer the owners we have, even though their admirable buy-and-keep
attitudes limit the extent to which long-term shareholders can profit from opportunistic repurchases.
Finally, one easily-overlooked value calculation specific to Berkshire: As we’ve discussed, insurance “float”
of the right sort is of great value to us. As it happens, repurchases automatically increase the amount of “float” per
share. That figure has increased during the past two years by 25% – going from $79,387 per “A” share to $99,497, a
meaningful gain that, as noted, owes some thanks to repurchases.
A Wonderful Man and a Wonderful Business
Last year, Paul Andrews died. Paul was the founder and CEO of TTI, a Fort Worth-based subsidiary of
Berkshire. Throughout his life – in both his business and his personal pursuits – Paul quietly displayed all the qualities
that Charlie and I admire. His story should be told.
In 1971, Paul was working as a purchasing agent for General Dynamics when the roof fell in. After losing a
huge defense contract, the company fired thousands of employees, including Paul.
With his first child due soon, Paul decided to bet on himself, using $500 of his savings to found Tex-Tronics
(later renamed TTI). The company set itself up to distribute small electronic components, and first-year sales totaled
$112,000. Today, TTI markets more than one million different items with annual volume of $7.7 billion.
But back to 2006: Paul, at 63, then found himself happy with his family, his job, and his associates. But he
had one nagging worry, heightened because he had recently witnessed a friend’s early death and the disastrous results
that followed for that man’s family and business. What, Paul asked himself in 2006, would happen to the many people
depending on him if he should unexpectedly die?
For a year, Paul wrestled with his options. Sell to a competitor? From a strictly economic viewpoint, that
course made the most sense. After all, competitors could envision lucrative “synergies” – savings that would be
achieved as the acquiror slashed duplicated functions at TTI.
But . . . Such a purchaser would most certainly also retain its CFO, its legal counsel, its HR unit. Their TTI
counterparts would therefore be sent packing. And ugh! If a new distribution center were to be needed, the acquirer’s
home city would certainly be favored over Fort Worth.

9

Whatever the financial benefits, Paul quickly concluded that selling to a competitor was not for him. He next
considered seeking a financial buyer, a species once labeled – aptly so – a leveraged buyout firm. Paul knew, however,
that such a purchaser would be focused on an “exit strategy.” And who could know what that would be? Brooding
over it all, Paul found himself having no interest in handing his 35-year-old creation over to a reseller.
When Paul met me, he explained why he had eliminated these two alternatives as buyers. He then summed
up his dilemma by saying – in far more tactful phrasing than this – “After a year of pondering the alternatives, I want
to sell to Berkshire because you are the only guy left.” So, I made an offer and Paul said “Yes.” One meeting; one
lunch; one deal.
To say we both lived happily ever after is an understatement. When Berkshire purchased TTI, the company
employed 2,387. Now the number is 8,043. A large percentage of that growth took place in Fort Worth and environs.
Earnings have increased 673%.
Annually, I would call Paul and tell him his salary should be substantially increased. Annually, he would tell
me, “We can talk about that next year, Warren; I’m too busy now.”
When Greg Abel and I attended Paul’s memorial service, we met children, grandchildren, long-time
associates (including TTI’s first employee) and John Roach, the former CEO of a Fort Worth company Berkshire had
purchased in 2000. John had steered his friend Paul to Omaha, instinctively knowing we would be a match.
At the service, Greg and I heard about the multitudes of people and organizations that Paul had silently
supported. The breadth of his generosity was extraordinary – geared always to improving the lives of others,
particularly those in Fort Worth.
In all ways, Paul was a class act.
************
Good luck – occasionally extraordinary luck – has played its part at Berkshire. If Paul and I had not enjoyed
a mutual friend – John Roach – TTI would not have found its home with us. But that ample serving of luck was only
the beginning. TTI was soon to lead Berkshire to its most important acquisition.
Every fall, Berkshire directors gather for a presentation by a few of our executives. We sometimes choose
the site based upon the location of a recent acquisition, by that means allowing directors to meet the new subsidiary’s
CEO and learn more about the acquiree’s activities.
In the fall of 2009, we consequently selected Fort Worth so that we could visit TTI. At that time, BNSF,
which also had Fort Worth as its hometown, was the third-largest holding among our marketable equities. Despite that
large stake, I had never visited the railroad’s headquarters.
Deb Bosanek, my assistant, scheduled our board’s opening dinner for October 22. Meanwhile, I arranged to
arrive earlier that day to meet with Matt Rose, CEO of BNSF, whose accomplishments I had long admired. When I
made the date, I had no idea that our get-together would coincide with BNSF’s third-quarter earnings report, which
was released late on the 22nd.
The market reacted badly to the railroad’s results. The Great Recession was in full force in the third quarter,
and BNSF’s earnings reflected that slump. The economic outlook was also bleak, and Wall Street wasn’t feeling
friendly to railroads – or much else.

10