theory: the stock market was totally efficient, and therefore 
calculations of business value - and even thought, itself - were 
of no importance in investment activities. (We are enormously 
indebted to those academics: what could be more advantageous in 
an intellectual contest - whether it be bridge, chess, or stock 
selection than to have opponents who have been taught that 
thinking is a waste of energy?)

     Through 1973 and 1974, WPC continued to do fine as a 
business, and intrinsic value grew.  Nevertheless, by yearend 
1974 our WPC holding showed a loss of about 25%, with market 
value at $8 million against our cost of $10.6 million.  What we 
had thought ridiculously cheap a year earlier had become a good 
bit cheaper as the market, in its infinite wisdom, marked WPC 
stock down to well below 20 cents on the dollar of intrinsic 
value.

     You know the happy outcome.  Kay Graham, CEO of WPC, had the 
brains and courage to repurchase large quantities of stock for 
the company at those bargain prices, as well as the managerial 
skills necessary to dramatically increase business values.  
Meanwhile, investors began to recognize the exceptional economics 
of the business and the stock price moved closer to underlying 
value.  Thus, we experienced a triple dip: the company’s business 
value soared upward, per-share business value increased 
considerably faster because of stock repurchases and, with a 
narrowing of the discount, the stock price outpaced the gain in 
per-share business value.

     We hold all of the WPC shares we bought in 1973, except for 
those sold back to the company in 1985’s proportionate 
redemption.  Proceeds from the redemption plus yearend market 
value of our holdings total $221 million.

     If we had invested our $10.6 million in any of a half-dozen 
media companies that were investment favorites in mid-1973, the 
value of our holdings at yearend would have been in the area of 
$40 - $60 million.  Our gain would have far exceeded the gain in 
the general market, an outcome reflecting the exceptional 
economics of the media business.  The extra $160 million or so we 
gained through ownership of WPC came, in very large part, from 
the superior nature of the managerial decisions made by Kay as 
compared to those made by managers of most media companies.  Her 
stunning business success has in large part gone unreported but 
among Berkshire shareholders it should not go unappreciated.

     Our Capital Cities purchase, described in the next section, 
required me to leave the WPC Board early in 1986.  But we intend 
to hold indefinitely whatever WPC stock FCC rules allow us to.  
We expect WPC’s business values to grow at a reasonable rate, and 
we know that management is both able and shareholder-oriented.  
However, the market now values the company at over $1.8 billion, 
and there is no way that the value can progress from that level 
at a rate anywhere close to the rate possible when the company’s 
valuation was only $100 million.  Because market prices have also 
been bid up for our other holdings, we face the same vastly-
reduced potential throughout our portfolio.

     You will notice that we had a significant holding in 
Beatrice Companies at yearend.  This is a short-term arbitrage 
holding - in effect, a parking place for money (though not a 
totally safe one, since deals sometimes fall through and create 
substantial losses).  We sometimes enter the arbitrage field when 
we have more money than ideas, but only to participate in 
announced mergers and sales.  We would be a lot happier if the 
funds currently employed on this short-term basis found a long-
term home.  At the moment, however, prospects are bleak.

     At yearend our insurance subsidiaries had about $400 million 
in tax-exempt bonds, of which $194 million at amortized cost were 
issues of Washington Public Power Supply System (“WPPSS”) 
Projects 1, 2, and 3. 1 discussed this position fully last year, 
and explained why we would not disclose further purchases or 
sales until well after the fact (adhering to the policy we follow 
on stocks).  Our unrealized gain on the WPPSS bonds at yearend 
was $62 million, perhaps one-third arising from the upward 
movement of bonds generally, and the remainder from a more 
positive investor view toward WPPSS 1, 2, and 3s.  Annual tax-
exempt income from our WPPSS issues is about $30 million.
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.
Right after yearend, Berkshire purchased 3 million shares of 
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. (“Cap Cities”) at $172.50 per share, the 
market price of such shares at the time the commitment was made 
early in March, 1985.  I’ve been on record for many years about 
the management of Cap Cities: I think it is the best of any 
publicly-owned company in the country.  And Tom Murphy and Dan 
Burke are not only great managers, they are precisely the sort of 
fellows that you would want your daughter to marry.  It is a 
privilege to be associated with them - and also a lot of fun, as 
any of you who know them will understand.

     Our purchase of stock helped Cap Cities finance the $3.5 
billion acquisition of American Broadcasting Companies.  For Cap 
Cities, ABC is a major undertaking whose economics are likely to 
be unexciting over the next few years.  This bothers us not an 
iota; we can be very patient. (No matter how great the talent or 
effort, some things just take time: you can’t produce a baby in 
one month by getting nine women pregnant.)

     As evidence of our confidence, we have executed an unusual 
agreement: for an extended period Tom, as CEO (or Dan, should he 
be CEO) votes our stock.  This arrangement was initiated by 
Charlie and me, not by Tom.  We also have restricted ourselves in 
various ways regarding sale of our shares.  The object of these 
restrictions is to make sure that our block does not get sold to 
anyone who is a large holder (or intends to become a large 
holder) without the approval of management, an arrangement 
similar to ones we initiated some years ago at GEICO and 
Washington Post.

     Since large blocks frequently command premium prices, some 
might think we have injured Berkshire financially by creating 
such restrictions.  Our view is just the opposite.  We feel the 
long-term economic prospects for these businesses - and, thus, 
for ourselves as owners - are enhanced by the arrangements.  With 
them in place, the first-class managers with whom we have aligned 
ourselves can focus their efforts entirely upon running the 
businesses and maximizing long-term values for owners.  Certainly 
this is much better than having those managers distracted by 
“revolving-door capitalists” hoping to put the company “in play”. 
(Of course, some managers place their own interests above those 
of the company and its owners and deserve to be shaken up - but, 
in making investments, we try to steer clear of this type.)

     Today, corporate instability is an inevitable consequence of 
widely-diffused ownership of voting stock.  At any time a major 
holder can surface, usually mouthing reassuring rhetoric but 
frequently harboring uncivil intentions.  By circumscribing our 
blocks of stock as we often do, we intend to promote stability 
where it otherwise might be lacking.  That kind of certainty, 
combined with a good manager and a good business, provides 
excellent soil for a rich financial harvest.  That’s the economic 
case for our arrangements.

     The human side is just as important.  We don’t want managers 
we like and admire - and who have welcomed a major financial 
commitment by us - to ever lose any sleep wondering whether 
surprises might occur because of our large ownership.  I have 
told them there will be no surprises, and these agreements put 
Berkshire’s signature where my mouth is.  That signature also 
means the managers have a corporate commitment and therefore need 
not worry if my personal participation in Berkshire’s affairs 
ends prematurely (a term I define as any age short of three 
digits).

     Our Cap Cities purchase was made at a full price, reflecting 
the very considerable enthusiasm for both media stocks and media 
properties that has developed in recent years (and that, in the 
case of some property purchases, has approached a mania). it’s no 
field for bargains.  However, our Cap Cities investment allies us 
with an exceptional combination of properties and people - and we 
like the opportunity to participate in size.

     Of course, some of you probably wonder why we are now buying 
Cap Cities at $172.50 per share given that your Chairman, in a 
characteristic burst of brilliance, sold Berkshire’s holdings in 
the same company at $43 per share in 1978-80.  Anticipating your 
question, I spent much of 1985 working on a snappy answer that 
would reconcile these acts.

     A little more time, please.
Acquisition of Scott & Fetzer
Right after yearend we acquired The Scott & Fetzer Company 
(“Scott Fetzer”) of Cleveland for about $320 million. (In 
addition, about $90 million of pre-existing Scott Fetzer debt 
remains in place.) In the next section of this report I describe 
the sort of businesses that we wish to buy for Berkshire.  Scott 