Berkshire’s cash earnings from its papers will almost certainly trend downward over time. Even a sensible
Internet strategy will not be able to prevent modest erosion. At our cost, however, I believe these papers will meet
or exceed our economic test for acquisitions. Results to date support that belief.
Charlie and I, however, still operate under economic principle 11 (detailed on page 99) and will not
continue the operation of any business doomed to unending losses. One daily paper that we acquired in a bulk
purchase from Media General was significantly unprofitable under that company’s ownership. After analyzing the
paper’s results, we saw no remedy for the losses and reluctantly shut it down. All of our remaining dailies, however,
should be profitable for a long time to come. (They are listed on page 108.) At appropriate prices – and that
means at a very low multiple of current earnings – we will purchase more papers of the type we like.
************
A milestone in Berkshire’s newspaper operations occurred at yearend when Stan Lipsey retired as publisher
of The Buffalo News. It’s no exaggeration for me to say that the News might now be extinct were it not for Stan.
Charlie and I acquired the News in April 1977. It was an evening paper, dominant on weekdays but lacking
a Sunday edition. Throughout the country, the circulation trend was toward morning papers. Moreover, Sunday
was becoming ever more critical to the profitability of metropolitan dailies. Without a Sunday paper, the News was
destined to lose out to its morning competitor, which had a fat and entrenched Sunday product.
We therefore began to print a Sunday edition late in 1977. And then all hell broke loose. Our competitor
sued us, and District Judge Charles Brieant, Jr. authored a harsh ruling that crippled the introduction of our paper.
His ruling was later reversed – after 17 long months – in a 3-0 sharp rebuke by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.
While the appeal was pending, we lost circulation, hemorrhaged money and stood in constant danger of going out of
business.
Enter Stan Lipsey, a friend of mine from the 1960s, who, with his wife, had sold Berkshire a small Omaha
weekly. I found Stan to be an extraordinary newspaperman, knowledgeable about every aspect of circulation,
production, sales and editorial. (He was a key person in gaining that small weekly a Pulitzer Prize in 1973.) So
when I was in big trouble at the News, I asked Stan to leave his comfortable way of life in Omaha to take over in
Buffalo.
He never hesitated. Along with Murray Light, our editor, Stan persevered through four years of very dark
days until the News won the competitive struggle in 1982. Ever since, despite a difficult Buffalo economy, the
performance of the News has been exceptional. As both a friend and as a manager, Stan is simply the best.

18

Dividends
A number of Berkshire shareholders – including some of my good friends – would like Berkshire to pay a
cash dividend. It puzzles them that we relish the dividends we receive from most of the stocks that Berkshire owns,
but pay out nothing ourselves. So let’s examine when dividends do and don’t make sense for shareholders.
A profitable company can allocate its earnings in various ways (which are not mutually exclusive). A
company’s management should first examine reinvestment possibilities offered by its current business – projects to
become more efficient, expand territorially, extend and improve product lines or to otherwise widen the economic
moat separating the company from its competitors.
I ask the managers of our subsidiaries to unendingly focus on moat-widening opportunities, and they find
many that make economic sense. But sometimes our managers misfire. The usual cause of failure is that they start
with the answer they want and then work backwards to find a supporting rationale. Of course, the process is
subconscious; that’s what makes it so dangerous.
Your chairman has not been free of this sin. In Berkshire’s 1986 annual report, I described how twenty
years of management effort and capital improvements in our original textile business were an exercise in futility. I
wanted the business to succeed and wished my way into a series of bad decisions. (I even bought another New
England textile company.) But wishing makes dreams come true only in Disney movies; it’s poison in business.
Despite such past miscues, our first priority with available funds will always be to examine whether they
can be intelligently deployed in our various businesses. Our record $12.1 billion of fixed-asset investments and bolton acquisitions in 2012 demonstrate that this is a fertile field for capital allocation at Berkshire. And here we have
an advantage: Because we operate in so many areas of the economy, we enjoy a range of choices far wider than that
open to most corporations. In deciding what to do, we can water the flowers and skip over the weeds.
Even after we deploy hefty amounts of capital in our current operations, Berkshire will regularly generate a
lot of additional cash. Our next step, therefore, is to search for acquisitions unrelated to our current businesses.
Here our test is simple: Do Charlie and I think we can effect a transaction that is likely to leave our shareholders
wealthier on a per-share basis than they were prior to the acquisition?
I have made plenty of mistakes in acquisitions and will make more. Overall, however, our record is
satisfactory, which means that our shareholders are far wealthier today than they would be if the funds we used for
acquisitions had instead been devoted to share repurchases or dividends.
But, to use the standard disclaimer, past performance is no guarantee of future results. That’s particularly
true at Berkshire: Because of our present size, making acquisitions that are both meaningful and sensible is now
more difficult than it has been during most of our years.
Nevertheless, a large deal still offers us possibilities to add materially to per-share intrinsic value. BNSF is
a case in point: It is now worth considerably more than our carrying value. Had we instead allocated the funds
required for this purchase to dividends or repurchases, you and I would have been worse off. Though large
transactions of the BNSF kind will be rare, there are still some whales in the ocean.
The third use of funds – repurchases – is sensible for a company when its shares sell at a meaningful
discount to conservatively calculated intrinsic value. Indeed, disciplined repurchases are the surest way to use funds
intelligently: It’s hard to go wrong when you’re buying dollar bills for 80¢ or less. We explained our criteria for
repurchases in last year’s report and, if the opportunity presents itself, we will buy large quantities of our stock. We
originally said we would not pay more than 110% of book value, but that proved unrealistic. Therefore, we
increased the limit to 120% in December when a large block became available at about 116% of book value.

19

But never forget: In repurchase decisions, price is all-important. Value is destroyed when purchases are
made above intrinsic value. The directors and I believe that continuing shareholders are benefitted in a meaningful
way by purchases up to our 120% limit.
And that brings us to dividends. Here we have to make a few assumptions and use some math. The
numbers will require careful reading, but they are essential to understanding the case for and against dividends. So
bear with me.
We’ll start by assuming that you and I are the equal owners of a business with $2 million of net worth. The
business earns 12% on tangible net worth – $240,000 – and can reasonably expect to earn the same 12% on
reinvested earnings. Furthermore, there are outsiders who always wish to buy into our business at 125% of net
worth. Therefore, the value of what we each own is now $1.25 million.
You would like to have the two of us shareholders receive one-third of our company’s annual earnings and
have two-thirds be reinvested. That plan, you feel, will nicely balance your needs for both current income and
capital growth. So you suggest that we pay out $80,000 of current earnings and retain $160,000 to increase the
future earnings of the business. In the first year, your dividend would be $40,000, and as earnings grew and the onethird payout was maintained, so too would your dividend. In total, dividends and stock value would increase 8%
each year (12% earned on net worth less 4% of net worth paid out).
After ten years our company would have a net worth of $4,317,850 (the original $2 million compounded at
8%) and your dividend in the upcoming year would be $86,357. Each of us would have shares worth $2,698,656
(125% of our half of the company’s net worth). And we would live happily ever after – with dividends and the
value of our stock continuing to grow at 8% annually.
There is an alternative approach, however, that would leave us even happier. Under this scenario, we