renew my driver’s license.”
In New York, Cathy Baron Tamraz read the article, and it struck a chord. On November 21, she
sent me a letter that began, “As president of Business Wire, I’d like to introduce you to my
company, as I believe it fits the profile of Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary companies as detailed in
a recent Wall Street Journal article.”
By the time I finished Cathy’s two-page letter, I felt Business Wire and Berkshire were a fit. I
particularly liked her penultimate paragraph: “We run a tight ship and keep unnecessary spending
under wraps. No secretaries or management layers here. Yet we’ll invest big dollars to gain a
technological advantage and move the business forward.”
I promptly gave Cathy a call, and before long Berkshire had reached agreement with Business
Wire’s controlling shareholder, Lorry Lokey, who founded the company in 1961 (and who had
just made Cathy CEO). I love success stories like Lorry’s. Today 78, he has built a company that
disseminates information in 150 countries for 25,000 clients. His story, like those of many
entrepreneurs who have selected Berkshire as a home for their life’s work, is an example of what
can happen when a good idea, a talented individual and hard work converge.

•

In December we agreed to buy 81% of Applied Underwriters, a company that offers a combination
of payroll services and workers’ compensation insurance to small businesses. A majority of
Applied’s customers are located in California.

5

In 1998, though, when the company had 12 employees, it acquired an Omaha-based operation
with 24 employees that offered a somewhat-similar service. Sid Ferenc and Steve Menzies, who
have built Applied’s remarkable business, concluded that Omaha had many advantages as an
operational base – a brilliant insight, I might add – and today 400 of the company’s 479
employees are located here.
Less than a year ago, Applied entered into a large reinsurance contract with Ajit Jain, the
extraordinary manager of National Indemnity’s reinsurance division. Ajit was impressed by Sid
and Steve, and they liked Berkshire’s method of operation. So we decided to join forces. We are
pleased that Sid and Steve retain 19% of Applied. They started on a shoestring only 12 years ago,
and it will be fun to see what they can accomplish with Berkshire’s backing.
•

Last spring, MidAmerican Energy, our 80.5% owned subsidiary, agreed to buy PacifiCorp, a
major electric utility serving six Western states. An acquisition of this sort requires many
regulatory approvals, but we’ve now obtained these and expect to close this transaction soon.
Berkshire will then buy $3.4 billion of MidAmerican’s common stock, which MidAmerican will
supplement with $1.7 billion of borrowing to complete the purchase. You can’t expect to earn
outsized profits in regulated utilities, but the industry offers owners the opportunity to deploy large
sums at fair returns – and therefore, it makes good sense for Berkshire. A few years back, I said
that we hoped to make some very large purchases in the utility field. Note the plural – we’ll be
looking for more.

In addition to buying these new operations, we continue to make “bolt-on” acquisitions. Some
aren’t so small: Shaw, our carpet operation, spent about $550 million last year on two purchases that
furthered its vertical integration and should improve its profit margin in the future. XTRA and Clayton
Homes also made value-enhancing acquisitions.
Unlike many business buyers, Berkshire has no “exit strategy.” We buy to keep. We do, though,
have an entrance strategy, looking for businesses in this country or abroad that meet our six criteria and are
available at a price that will produce a reasonable return. If you have a business that fits, give me a call.
Like a hopeful teenage girl, I’ll be waiting by the phone.
Insurance
Let’s now talk about our four sectors and start with insurance, our core business. What counts
here is the amount of “float” and its cost over time.
For new readers, let me explain. “Float” is money that doesn’t belong to us but that we
temporarily hold. Most of our float arises because (1) premiums are paid upfront though the service we
provide – insurance protection – is delivered over a period that usually covers a year and; (2) loss events
that occur today do not always result in our immediately paying claims, because it sometimes takes many
years for losses to be reported (asbestos losses would be an example), negotiated and settled. The $20
million of float that came with our 1967 entry into insurance has now increased – both by way of internal
growth and acquisitions – to $49 billion.
Float is wonderful – if it doesn’t come at a high price. Its cost is determined by underwriting
results, meaning how the expenses and losses we will ultimately pay compare with the premiums we have
received. When an insurer earns an underwriting profit – as has been the case at Berkshire in about half of
the 39 years we have been in the insurance business – float is better than free. In such years, we are
actually paid for holding other people’s money. For most insurers, however, life has been far more
difficult: In aggregate, the property-casualty industry almost invariably operates at an underwriting loss.
When that loss is large, float becomes expensive, sometimes devastatingly so.

6

In 2004 our float cost us less than nothing, and I told you that we had a chance – absent a megacatastrophe – of no-cost float in 2005. But we had the mega-cat, and as a specialist in that coverage,
Berkshire suffered hurricane losses of $3.4 billion. Nevertheless, our float was costless in 2005 because of
the superb results we had in our other insurance activities, particularly at GEICO.
************
Auto policies in force grew by 12.1% at GEICO, a gain increasing its market share of U.S. private
passenger auto business from about 5.6% to about 6.1%. Auto insurance is a big business: Each sharepoint equates to $1.6 billion in sales.
While our brand strength is not quantifiable, I believe it also grew significantly. When Berkshire
acquired control of GEICO in 1996, its annual advertising expenditures were $31 million. Last year we
were up to $502 million. And I can’t wait to spend more.
Our advertising works because we have a great story to tell: More people can save money by
insuring with us than is the case with any other national carrier offering policies to all comers. (Some
specialized auto insurers do particularly well for applicants fitting into their niches; also, because our
national competitors use rating systems that differ from ours, they will sometimes beat our price.) Last
year, we achieved by far the highest conversion rate – the percentage of internet and phone quotes turned
into sales – in our history. This is powerful evidence that our prices are more attractive relative to the
competition than ever before. Test us by going to GEICO.com or by calling 800-847-7536. Be sure to
indicate you are a shareholder because that fact will often qualify you for a discount.
I told you last year about GEICO’s entry into New Jersey in August, 2004. Drivers in that state
love us. Our retention rate there for new policyholders is running higher than in any other state, and by
sometime in 2007, GEICO is likely to become the third largest auto insurer in New Jersey. There, as
elsewhere, our low costs allow low prices that lead to steady gains in profitable business.
That simple formula immediately impressed me 55 years ago when I first discovered GEICO.
Indeed, at age 21, I wrote an article about the company – it’s reproduced on page 24 – when its market
value was $7 million. As you can see, I called GEICO “The Security I Like Best.” And that’s what I still
call it.
************
We have major reinsurance operations at General Re and National Indemnity. The former is run
by Joe Brandon and Tad Montross, the latter by Ajit Jain. Both units performed well in 2005 considering
the extraordinary hurricane losses that battered the industry.
It’s an open question whether atmospheric, oceanic or other causal factors have dramatically
changed the frequency or intensity of hurricanes. Recent experience is worrisome. We know, for instance,
that in the 100 years before 2004, about 59 hurricanes of Category 3 strength, or greater, hit the
Southeastern and Gulf Coast states, and that only three of these were Category 5s. We further know that in
2004 there were three Category 3 storms that hammered those areas and that these were followed by four
more in 2005, one of them, Katrina, the most destructive hurricane in industry history. Moreover, there
were three Category 5s near the coast last year that fortunately weakened before landfall.
Was this onslaught of more frequent and more intense storms merely an anomaly? Or was it
caused by changes in climate, water temperature or other variables we don’t fully understand? And could
these factors be developing in a manner that will soon produce disasters dwarfing Katrina?