you can't get into Gorat's. And then, around eight o'clock, join me in
having a Dusty Sundae for dessert. This item is a personal specialty --
the Dairy Queen will furnish you a copy of my recipe -- and will be offered
only on Shareholder Sunday.

The Omaha Royals and Albuquerque
Dukes will play baseball on Saturday evening, May 2nd, at Rosenblatt Stadium.
As usual, your Chairman, shamelessly exploiting his 25% ownership of the
team, will take the mound. But this year you will see something new.

In past games, much to the bafflement
of the crowd, I have shaken off the catcher's first call. He has consistently
asked for my sweeping curve, and I have just as regularly resisted. Instead,
I have served up a pathetic fast ball, which on my best day was clocked
at eight miles per hour (with a following wind).

There's a story behind my unwillingness
to throw the curve ball. As some of you may know, Candy Cummings invented
the curve in 1867 and used it to great effect in the National Association,
where he never won less than 28 games in a season. The pitch, however,
drew immediate criticism from the very highest of authorities, namely Charles
Elliott, then president of Harvard University, who declared, "I have
heard that this year we at Harvard won the baseball championship because
we have a pitcher who has a fine curve ball. I am further instructed that
the purpose of the curve ball is to deliberately deceive the batter. Harvard
is not in the business of teaching deception." (I'm not making this
up.)

Ever since I learned of President
Elliott's moral teachings on this subject, I have scrupulously refrained
from using my curve, however devastating its effect might have been on
hapless batters. Now, however, it is time for my karma to run over Elliott's
dogma and for me to quit holding back. Visit the park on Saturday night
and marvel at the majestic arc of my breaking ball.

Our proxy statement includes information
about obtaining tickets to the game. We will also provide an information
packet describing the local hot spots, including, of course, those 12 Dairy
Queens.

Come to Omaha -- the cradle of
capitalism -- in May and enjoy yourself.
