for $635 million (versus the $1.27 billion those shares would bring in the Disney merger).

                         * * * * * * * * * * * * 

     About 96.3% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 1995 shareholder-designated
contributions program.  Contributions made were $11.6 million and 3,600 charities were recipients.  A
full description of the shareholder-designated contributions program appears on pages 54-55.

     Every year a few shareholders miss out on the program because they don't have their shares
registered in their own names on the prescribed record date or because they fail to get their designation
form back to us within the 60-day period allowed.  That second problem pained me especially this year
because two good friends with substantial holdings missed the deadline.  We had to deny their requests
to be included because we can't make exceptions for some shareholders while refusing to make them
for others.

     (To participate in future programs, you must own Class A shares that are registered in the name
of the actual owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so registered
on August 31, 1996, will be ineligible for the 1996 program.  When you get the form, return it promptly
so that it does not get put aside or forgotten.)

                           * * * * * * * * * * * *

     When it comes to our Annual Meetings, Charlie and I are managerial oddballs:  We thoroughly
enjoy the event.  So come join us on Monday, May 6.  At Berkshire, we have no investor relations
department and don't use financial analysts as a channel for disseminating information, earnings
&quot;guidance,&quot; or the like.  Instead, we prefer direct manager-to-owner communication and believe that the
Annual Meeting is the ideal place for this interchange of ideas.  Talking to you there is efficient for us
and also democratic in that all present simultaneously hear what we have to say.

     Last year, for the first time, we had the Annual Meeting at the Holiday Convention Centre and the
logistics seemed to work.  The ballroom there was filled with about 3,200 people, and we had a video
feed into a second room holding another 800 people.  Seating in the main room was a little tight, so
this year we will probably configure it to hold 3,000.  This year we will also have two rooms for the
overflow.

     All in all, we will be able to handle 5,000 shareholders.  The meeting will start at 9:30 a.m., but
be warned that last year the main ballroom was filled shortly after 8:00 a.m.

     Shareholders from 49 states attended our 1995 meeting   where were you, Vermont?   and a
number of foreign countries, including Australia, Sweden and Germany, were represented.  As always,
the meeting attracted shareholders who were interested in Berkshire's business   as contrasted to
shareholders who are primarily interested in themselves   and the questions were all good.  Charlie and
I ate lunch on stage and answered questions for about five hours.

     We feel that if owners come from all over the world, we should try to make sure they have an
opportunity to ask their questions.  Most shareholders leave about noon, but a thousand or so hardcore
types usually stay to see whether we will drop.  Charlie and I are in training to last at least five hours
again this year.

     We will have our usual array of Berkshire products at the meeting and this year will add a sales
representative from GEICO.  At the 1995 meeting, we sold 747 pounds of candy, 759 pairs of shoes,
and over $17,500 of World Books and related publications.  In a move that might have been dangerous
had our stock been weak, we added knives last year from our Quikut subsidiary and sold 400 sets of
these.  (We draw the line at soft fruit, however.)  All of these goods will again be available this year. 
We don't consider a cultural event complete unless a little business is mixed in.

     Because we expect a large crowd for the meeting, we recommend that you promptly get both plane
and hotel reservations.  Those of you who like to be downtown (about six miles from the Centre) may
wish to stay at the Radisson Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) but nice hotel, or at the much larger
Red Lion Hotel a few blocks away.  In the vicinity of the Centre are the Holiday Inn (403 rooms),
Homewood Suites (118 rooms) and Hampton Inn (136 rooms).  Another recommended spot is the
Marriott, whose west Omaha location is about 100 yards from Borsheim's and a ten-minute drive from
the Centre.  There will be buses at the Marriott that will leave at 7:30, 8:00 and 8:30 for the meeting
and return after it ends.

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can obtain the card you will need for
admission to the meeting.  A good-sized parking area is available at the Centre, while those who stay
at the Holiday Inn, Homewood Suites and Hampton Inn will be able to walk to the meeting.  As usual,
we will have buses to take you to the Nebraska Furniture Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and
to take you from there to hotels or the airport later.

     NFM's main store, on its 64-acre site about two miles north of the Centre, is open from 10 a.m.
to 9 p.m. on weekdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays, and noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays.  Rose
Blumkin   &quot;Mrs. B&quot;   is now 102, but will be hard at work in Mrs. B's Warehouse.  She was honored
in November at the opening of The Rose, a classic downtown theater of the 20's that has been
magnificently restored, but that would have been demolished had she not saved it.  Ask her to tell you
the story.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open for shareholders and their guests from
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on May 5th.  Additionally, we will have a special opening for shareholders on
Saturday, the 4th, from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.  Last year, on Shareholders Day, we wrote 1,733 tickets in the
six hours we were open   which is a sale every 13 seconds.  Remember, though, that records are
made to be broken.

     At Borsheim's, we will also have the world's largest faceted diamond on display.  Two years in the
cutting, this inconspicuous bauble is 545 carats in size.  Please inspect this stone and let it guide you
in determining what size gem is appropriate for the one you love.

     On Saturday evening, May 4, there will be a baseball game at Rosenblatt Stadium between the
Omaha Royals and the Louisville Redbirds.  I expect to make the opening pitch   owning a quarter of
the team assures me of one start per year   but our manager, Mike Jirschele, will probably make his
usual mistake and yank me immediately after.  About 1,700 shareholders attended last year's game. 
Unfortunately, we had a rain-out, which greatly disappointed the many scouts in the stands.  But the
smart ones will be back this year, and I plan to show them my best stuff.

     Our proxy statement will include information about obtaining tickets to the game.  We will also offer
an information packet this year listing restaurants that will be open on Sunday night and describing
various things that you can do in Omaha on the weekend.

     For years, I've unsuccessfully tried to get my grade school classmate, &quot;Pal&quot; Gorat, to open his
steakhouse for business on the Sunday evening preceding the meeting.  But this year he's relented. 
Gorat's is a family-owned enterprise that has thrived for 52 years, and if you like steaks, you'll love this
place. I've told Pal he will get a good crowd, so call Gorat's at 402-551-3733 for a reservation.  You'll
spot me there ...  I'll be the one eating the rare T-bone with a double order of hash browns.

                                                            Warren E. Buffett
March 1, 1996
