least hundreds of millions and dates back at least three decades. All eleven directors purchased their
holdings in the market just as you did; we’ve never passed out options or restricted shares. Charlie and I
love such honest-to-God ownership. After all, who ever washes a rental car?
In addition, director fees at Berkshire are nominal (as my son, Howard, periodically reminds me).
Thus, the upside from Berkshire for all eleven is proportionately the same as the upside for any Berkshire
shareholder. And it always will be.

9

The downside for Berkshire directors is actually worse than yours because we carry no directors
and officers liability insurance. Therefore, if something really catastrophic happens on our directors’
watch, they are exposed to losses that will far exceed yours.
The bottom line for our directors: You win, they win big; you lose, they lose big. Our approach
might be called owner-capitalism. We know of no better way to engender true independence. (This
structure does not guarantee perfect behavior, however: I’ve sat on boards of companies in which Berkshire
had huge stakes and remained silent as questionable proposals were rubber-stamped.)
In addition to being independent, directors should have business savvy, a shareholder orientation
and a genuine interest in the company. The rarest of these qualities is business savvy – and if it is lacking,
the other two are of little help. Many people who are smart, articulate and admired have no real
understanding of business. That’s no sin; they may shine elsewhere. But they don’t belong on corporate
boards. Similarly, I would be useless on a medical or scientific board (though I would likely be welcomed
by a chairman who wanted to run things his way). My name would dress up the list of directors, but I
wouldn’t know enough to critically evaluate proposals. Moreover, to cloak my ignorance, I would keep my
mouth shut (if you can imagine that). In effect, I could be replaced, without loss, by a potted plant.
Last year, as we moved to change our board, I asked for self-nominations from shareholders who
believed they had the requisite qualities to be a Berkshire director. Despite the lack of either liability
insurance or meaningful compensation, we received more than twenty applications. Most were good,
coming from owner-oriented individuals having family holdings of Berkshire worth well over $1 million.
After considering them, Charlie and I – with the concurrence of our incumbent directors – asked four
shareholders who did not nominate themselves to join the board: David Gottesman, Charlotte Guyman,
Don Keough and Tom Murphy. These four people are all friends of mine, and I know their strengths well.
They bring an extraordinary amount of business talent to Berkshire’s board.
The primary job of our directors is to select my successor, either upon my death or disability, or
when I begin to lose my marbles. (David Ogilvy had it right when he said: “Develop your eccentricities
when young. That way, when you get older, people won’t think you are going gaga.” Charlie’s family and
mine feel that we overreacted to David’s advice.)
At our directors’ meetings we cover the usual run of housekeeping matters. But the real
discussion – both with me in the room and absent – centers on the strengths and weaknesses of the four
internal candidates to replace me.
Our board knows that the ultimate scorecard on its performance will be determined by the record
of my successor. He or she will need to maintain Berkshire’s culture, allocate capital and keep a group of
America’s best managers happy in their jobs. This isn’t the toughest task in the world – the train is already
moving at a good clip down the track – and I’m totally comfortable about it being done well by any of the
four candidates we have identified. I have more than 99% of my net worth in Berkshire and will be happy
to have my wife or foundation (depending on the order in which she and I die) continue this concentration.
Sector Results
As managers, Charlie and I want to give our owners the financial information and commentary we
would wish to receive if our roles were reversed. To do this with both clarity and reasonable brevity
becomes more difficult as Berkshire’s scope widens. Some of our businesses have vastly different
economic characteristics from others, which means that our consolidated statements, with their jumble of
figures, make useful analysis almost impossible.
On the following pages, therefore, we will present some balance sheet and earnings figures from
our four major categories of businesses along with commentary about each. We particularly want you to
understand the limited circumstances under which we will use debt, since typically we shun it. We will
not, however, inundate you with data that has no real value in calculating Berkshire’s intrinsic value.
Doing so would likely obfuscate the most important facts. One warning: When analyzing Berkshire, be

10

sure to remember that the company should be viewed as an unfolding movie, not as a still photograph.
Those who focused in the past on only the snapshot of the day sometimes reached erroneous conclusions.
Insurance
Let’s start with insurance – since that’s where the money is.
The fountain of funds we enjoy in our insurance operations comes from “float,” which is money
that doesn’t belong to us but that we temporarily hold. Most of our float arises because (1) premiums are
paid upfront though the service we provide – insurance protection – is delivered over a period that usually
covers a year and; (2) loss events that occur today do not always result in our immediately paying claims,
since it sometimes takes years for losses to be reported (think asbestos), negotiated and settled.
Float is wonderful – if it doesn’t come at a high price. The cost of float is determined by
underwriting results, meaning how losses and expenses paid compare with premiums received. The
property-casualty industry as a whole regularly operates at a substantial underwriting loss, and therefore
often has a cost of float that is unattractive.
Overall, our results have been good. True, we’ve had five terrible years in which float cost us
more than 10%. But in 18 of the 37 years Berkshire has been in the insurance business, we have operated
at an underwriting profit, meaning we were actually paid for holding money. And the quantity of this
cheap money has grown far beyond what I dreamed it could when we entered the business in 1967.

Year
1967
1977
1987
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003

GEICO

2,917
3,125
3,444
3,943
4,251
4,678
5,287

Yearend Float (in $ millions)
Other
Other
General Re
Reinsurance
Primary
20
40
131
701
807
4,014
455
14,909
4,305
415
15,166
6,285
403
15,525
7,805
598
19,310
11,262
685
22,207
13,396
943
23,654
13,948
1,331

Total
20
171
1,508
7,386
22,754
25,298
27,871
35,508
41,224
44,220

Last year was a standout. Float reached record levels and it came without cost as all major
segments contributed to Berkshire’s $1.7 billion pre-tax underwriting profit.
Our results have been exceptional for one reason: We have truly exceptional managers. Insurers
sell a non-proprietary piece of paper containing a non-proprietary promise. Anyone can copy anyone else’s
product. No installed base, key patents, critical real estate or natural resource position protects an insurer’s
competitive position. Typically, brands do not mean much either.
The critical variables, therefore, are managerial brains, discipline and integrity. Our managers
have all of these attributes – in spades. Let’s take a look at these all-stars and their operations.
•

General Re had been Berkshire’s problem child in the years following our acquisition of it in
1998. Unfortunately, it was a 400-pound child, and its negative impact on our overall
performance was large.
That’s behind us: Gen Re is fixed. Thank Joe Brandon, its CEO, and his partner, Tad
Montross, for that. When I wrote you last year, I thought that discipline had been restored to
both underwriting and reserving, and events during 2003 solidified my view.

11

That does not mean we will never have setbacks. Reinsurance is a business that is certain to
deliver blows from time to time. But, under Joe and Tad, this operation will be a powerful
engine driving Berkshire’s future profitability.
Gen Re’s financial strength, unmatched among reinsurers even as we started 2003, further
improved during the year. Many of the company’s competitors suffered credit downgrades
last year, leaving Gen Re, and its sister operation at National Indemnity, as the only AAArated companies among the world’s major reinsurers.
When insurers purchase reinsurance, they buy only a promise – one whose validity may not
be tested for decades – and there are no promises in the reinsurance world equaling those
offered by Gen Re and National Indemnity. Furthermore, unlike most reinsurers, we retain
virtually all of the risks we assume. Therefore, our ability to pay is not dependent on the
ability or willingness of others to reimburse us. This independent financial strength could be
enormously important when the industry experiences the mega-catastrophe it surely will.