two to three times net worth.  If the level is three times, of 
course, a one-third shrink from cost in bond prices - if it were 
to be recognized on the books - would wipe out net worth.  And 
shrink they have.  Some of the largest and best known property-
casualty companies currently find themselves with nominal, or 
even negative, net worth when bond holdings are valued at market.  
Of course their bonds could rise in price, thereby partially, or 
conceivably even fully, restoring the integrity of stated net 
worth.  Or they could fall further. (We believe that short-term 
forecasts of stock or bond prices are useless.  The forecasts may 
tell you a great deal about the forecaster; they tell you nothing 
about the future.)

     It might strike some as strange that an insurance company’s 
survival is threatened when its stock portfolio falls 
sufficiently in price to reduce net worth significantly, but that 
an even greater decline in bond prices produces no reaction at 
all.  The industry would respond by pointing out that, no matter 
what the current price, the bonds will be paid in full at 
maturity, thereby eventually eliminating any interim price 
decline.  It may take twenty, thirty, or even forty years, this 
argument says, but, as long as the bonds don’t have to be sold, 
in the end they’ll all be worth face value.  Of course, if they 
are sold even if they are replaced with similar bonds offering 
better relative value - the loss must be booked immediately.  
And, just as promptly, published net worth must be adjusted 
downward by the amount of the loss.

     Under such circumstances, a great many investment options 
disappear, perhaps for decades.  For example, when large 
underwriting losses are in prospect, it may make excellent 
business logic for some insurers to shift from tax-exempt bonds 
into taxable bonds.  Unwillingness to recognize major bond losses 
may be the sole factor that prevents such a sensible move.

     But the full implications flowing from massive unrealized 
bond losses are far more serious than just the immobilization of 
investment intellect.  For the source of funds to purchase
and 
hold
those bonds is a pool of money derived from policyholders 
and claimants (with changing faces) - money which, in effect, is 
temporarily on deposit with the insurer.  As long as this pool 
retains its size, no bonds must be sold.  If the pool of funds 
shrinks - which it will if the volume of business declines 
significantly - assets must be sold to pay off the liabilities.  
And if those assets consist of bonds with big unrealized losses, 
such losses will rapidly become realized, decimating net worth in 
the process.

     Thus, an insurance company with a bond market value 
shrinkage approaching stated net worth (of which there are now 
many) and also faced with inadequate rate levels that are sure to 
deteriorate further has two options.  One option for management 
is to tell the underwriters to keep pricing according to the 
exposure involved - “be sure to get a dollar of premium for every 
dollar of expense cost plus expectable loss cost”.

     The consequences of this directive are predictable: (a) with 
most business both price sensitive and renewable annually, many 
policies presently on the books will be lost to competitors in 
rather short order; (b) as premium volume shrinks significantly, 
there will be a lagged but corresponding decrease in liabilities 
(unearned premiums and claims payable); (c) assets (bonds) must 
be sold to match the decrease in liabilities; and (d) the 
formerly unrecognized disappearance of net worth will become 
partially recognized (depending upon the extent of such sales) in 
the insurer’s published financial statements.

     Variations of this depressing sequence involve a smaller 
penalty to stated net worth.  The reaction of some companies at 
(c) would be to sell either stocks that are already carried at 
market values or recently purchased bonds involving less severe 
losses.  This ostrich-like behavior - selling the better assets 
and keeping the biggest losers - while less painful in the short 
term, is unlikely to be a winner in the long term.

     The second option is much simpler: just keep writing 
business regardless of rate levels and whopping prospective 
underwriting losses, thereby maintaining the present levels of 
premiums, assets and liabilities - and then pray for a better 
day, either for underwriting or for bond prices.  There is much 
criticism in the trade press of “cash flow” underwriting; i.e., 
writing business regardless of prospective underwriting losses in 
order to obtain funds to invest at current high interest rates.  
This second option might properly be termed “asset maintenance” 
underwriting - the acceptance of terrible business just to keep 
the assets you now have.

     Of course you know which option will be selected.  And it 
also is clear that as long as many large insurers feel compelled 
to choose that second option, there will be no better day for 
underwriting.  For if much of the industry feels it must maintain 
premium volume levels regardless of price adequacy, all insurers 
will have to come close to meeting those prices.  Right behind 
having financial problems yourself, the next worst plight is to 
have a large group of competitors with financial problems that 
they can defer by a “sell-at-any-price” policy.

     We mentioned earlier that companies that were unwilling - 
for any of a number of reasons, including public reaction, 
institutional pride, or protection of stated net worth - to sell 
bonds at price levels forcing recognition of major losses might 
find themselves frozen in investment posture for a decade or 
longer.  But, as noted, that’s only half of the problem.
Companies that have made extensive commitments to long-term bonds 
may have lost, for a considerable period of time, not only many 
of their investment options, but many of their underwriting 
options as well.
Our own position in this respect is satisfactory.  We 
believe our net worth, valuing bonds of all insurers at amortized 
cost, is the strongest relative to premium volume among all large 
property-casualty stockholder-owned groups.  When bonds are 
valued at market, our relative strength becomes far more 
dramatic. (But lest we get too puffed up, we remind ourselves 
that our asset and liability maturities still are far more 
mismatched than we would wish and that we, too, lost important 
sums in bonds because your Chairman was talking when he should 
have been acting.)

     Our abundant capital and investment flexibility will enable 
us to do whatever we think makes the most sense during the 
prospective extended period of inadequate pricing.  But troubles 
for the industry mean troubles for us.  Our financial strength 
doesn’t remove us from the hostile pricing environment now 
enveloping the entire property-casualty insurance industry.  It 
just gives us more staying power and more options.
Insurance Operations
The National Indemnity managers, led by Phil Liesche with 
the usual able assistance of Roland Miller and Bill Lyons, outdid 
themselves in 1980.  While volume was flat, underwriting margins 
relative to the industry were at an all-time high.  We expect 
decreased volume from this operation in 1981.  But its managers 
will hear no complaints from corporate headquarters, nor will 
employment or salaries suffer.  We enormously admire the National 
Indemnity underwriting discipline - embedded from origin by the 
founder, Jack Ringwalt - and know that this discipline, if 
suspended, probably could not be fully regained.

     John Seward at Home and Auto continues to make good progress 
in replacing a diminishing number of auto policies with volume 
from less competitive lines, primarily small-premium general 
liability.  Operations are being slowly expanded, both 
geographically and by product line, as warranted by underwriting 
results.

     The reinsurance business continues to reflect the excesses 
and problems of the primary writers.  Worse yet, it has the 
potential for magnifying such excesses.  Reinsurance is 
characterized by extreme ease of entry, large premium payments in 
advance, and much-delayed loss reports and loss payments.  
Initially, the morning mail brings lots of cash and few claims.  
This state of affairs can produce a blissful, almost euphoric, 
feeling akin to that experienced by an innocent upon receipt of 
his first credit card.

     The magnetic lure of such cash-generating characteristics, 
currently enhanced by the presence of high interest rates, is 
transforming the reinsurance market into “amateur night”.  
Without a super catastrophe, industry underwriting will be poor 
in the next few years.  If we experience such a catastrophe, 
there could be a bloodbath with some companies not able to live 
up to contractual commitments.  George Young continues to do a 
first-class job for us in this business.  Results, with 
investment income included, have been reasonably profitable.  We 
will retain an active reinsurance presence but, for the 
foreseeable future, we expect no premium growth from this 
activity.

     We continue to have serious problems in the Homestate 
operation.  Floyd Taylor in Kansas has done an outstanding job 
but our underwriting record elsewhere is considerably below 
average.  Our poorest performer has been Insurance Company of 
Iowa, at which large losses have been sustained annually since 
its founding in 1973.  Late in the fall we abandoned underwriting 