
On the following day, I again got together with Matt and suggested that Berkshire would offer the railroad a
better long-term home than it could expect as a public company. I also told him the maximum price that Berkshire
would pay.
Matt relayed the offer to his directors and advisors. Eleven busy days later, Berkshire and BNSF announced
a firm deal. And here I’ll venture a rare prediction: BNSF will be a key asset for Berkshire and our country a century
from now.
The BNSF acquisition would never have happened if Paul Andrews hadn’t sized up Berkshire as the right
home for TTI.
Thanks
I taught my first investing class 70 years ago. Since then, I have enjoyed working almost every year with
students of all ages, finally “retiring” from that pursuit in 2018.
Along the way, my toughest audience was my grandson’s fifth-grade class. The 11-year-olds were squirming
in their seats and giving me blank stares until I mentioned Coca-Cola and its famous secret formula. Instantly, every
hand went up, and I learned that “secrets” are catnip to kids.
Teaching, like writing, has helped me develop and clarify my own thoughts. Charlie calls this phenomenon
the orangutan effect: If you sit down with an orangutan and carefully explain to it one of your cherished ideas, you
may leave behind a puzzled primate, but will yourself exit thinking more clearly.
Talking to university students is far superior. I have urged that they seek employment in (1) the field and (2)
with the kind of people they would select, if they had no need for money. Economic realities, I acknowledge, may
interfere with that kind of search. Even so, I urge the students never to give up the quest, for when they find that sort
of job, they will no longer be “working.”
Charlie and I, ourselves, followed that liberating course after a few early stumbles. We both started as parttimers at my grandfather’s grocery store, Charlie in 1940 and I in 1942. We were each assigned boring tasks and paid
little, definitely not what we had in mind. Charlie later took up law, and I tried selling securities. Job satisfaction
continued to elude us.
Finally, at Berkshire, we found what we love to do. With very few exceptions, we have now “worked” for
many decades with people whom we like and trust. It’s a joy in life to join with managers such as Paul Andrews or
the Berkshire families I told you about last year. In our home office, we employ decent and talented people – no jerks.
Turnover averages, perhaps, one person per year.
I would like, however, to emphasize a further item that turns our jobs into fun and satisfaction - - - - working
for you. There is nothing more rewarding to Charlie and me than enjoying the trust of individual long-term
shareholders who, for many decades, have joined us with the expectation that we would be a reliable custodian of their
funds.
Obviously, we can’t select our owners, as we could do if our form of operation were a partnership. Anyone
can buy shares of Berkshire today with the intention of soon reselling them. For sure, we get a few of that type of
shareholder, just as we get index funds that own huge amounts of Berkshire simply because they are required to do
so.

11

To a truly unusual degree, however, Berkshire has as owners a very large corps of individuals and families
that have elected to join us with an intent approaching “til death do us part.” Often, they have trusted us with a large
– some might say excessive – portion of their savings.
Berkshire, these shareholders would sometimes acknowledge, might be far from the best selection they could
have made. But they would add that Berkshire would rank high among those with which they would be most
comfortable. And people who are comfortable with their investments will, on average, achieve better results than those
who are motivated by ever-changing headlines, chatter and promises.
Long-term individual owners are both the “partners” Charlie and I have always sought and the ones we
constantly have in mind as we make decisions at Berkshire. To them we say, “It feels good to ‘work’ for you, and you
have our thanks for your trust.”
The Annual Meeting
Clear your calendar! Berkshire will have its annual gathering of capitalists in Omaha on Friday, April 29th
through Sunday, May 1st. The details regarding the weekend are laid out on pages A-1 and A-2. Omaha eagerly awaits
you, as do I.
I will end this letter with a sales pitch. “Cousin” Jimmy Buffett has designed a pontoon “party” boat that is
now being manufactured by Forest River, a Berkshire subsidiary. The boat will be introduced on April 29 at our
Berkshire Bazaar of Bargains. And, for two days only, shareholders will be able to purchase Jimmy’s masterpiece at
a 10% discount. Your bargain-hunting chairman will be buying a boat for his family’s use. Join me.
February 26, 2022
