1,924
7,040
18,598
28,215
38,159

$110,340

$248,027

Excludes shares held by pension funds of Berkshire subsidiaries.
This is our actual purchase price and also our tax basis.
Includes $10 billion investment in Occidental Petroleum Corporation consisting of preferred stock and
warrants to buy common stock.

Charlie and I do not view the $248 billion detailed above as a collection of stock market wagers – dalliances
to be terminated because of downgrades by “the Street,” an earnings “miss,” expected Federal Reserve actions,
possible political developments, forecasts by economists or whatever else might be the subject du jour.
What we see in our holdings, rather, is an assembly of companies that we partly own and that, on a weighted
basis, are earning more than 20% on the net tangible equity capital required to run their businesses. These companies,
also, earn their profits without employing excessive levels of debt.
Returns of that order by large, established and understandable businesses are remarkable under any
circumstances. They are truly mind-blowing when compared to the returns that many investors have accepted on
bonds over the last decade – 2 1⁄ 2% or even less on 30-year U.S. Treasury bonds, for example.

10

Forecasting interest rates has never been our game, and Charlie and I have no idea what rates will average
over the next year, or ten or thirty years. Our perhaps jaundiced view is that the pundits who opine on these subjects
reveal, by that very behavior, far more about themselves than they reveal about the future.
What we can say is that if something close to current rates should prevail over the coming decades and if
corporate tax rates also remain near the low level businesses now enjoy, it is almost certain that equities will over time
perform far better than long-term, fixed-rate debt instruments.
That rosy prediction comes with a warning: Anything can happen to stock prices tomorrow. Occasionally,
there will be major drops in the market, perhaps of 50% magnitude or even greater. But the combination of The
American Tailwind, about which I wrote last year, and the compounding wonders described by Mr. Smith, will make
equities the much better long-term choice for the individual who does not use borrowed money and who can control
his or her emotions. Others? Beware!
The Road Ahead
Three decades ago, my Midwestern friend, Joe Rosenfield, then in his 80s, received an irritating letter from
his local newspaper. In blunt words, the paper asked for biographical data it planned to use in Joe’s obituary. Joe
didn’t respond. So? A month later, he got a second letter from the paper, this one labeled “URGENT.”
Charlie and I long ago entered the urgent zone. That’s not exactly great news for us. But Berkshire
shareholders need not worry: Your company is 100% prepared for our departure.
The two of us base our optimism upon five factors. First, Berkshire’s assets are deployed in an extraordinary
variety of wholly or partly-owned businesses that, averaged out, earn attractive returns on the capital they use. Second,
Berkshire’s positioning of its “controlled” businesses within a single entity endows it with some important and
enduring economic advantages. Third, Berkshire’s financial affairs will unfailingly be managed in a manner allowing
the company to withstand external shocks of an extreme nature. Fourth, we possess skilled and devoted top managers
for whom running Berkshire is far more than simply having a high-paying and/or prestigious job. Finally, Berkshire’s
directors – your guardians – are constantly focused on both the welfare of owners and the nurturing of a culture that
is rare among giant corporations. (The value of this culture is explored in Margin of Trust, a new book by Larry
Cunningham and Stephanie Cuba that will be available at our annual meeting.)
Charlie and I have very pragmatic reasons for wanting to assure Berkshire’s prosperity in the years following
our exit: The Mungers have Berkshire holdings that dwarf any of the family’s other investments, and I have a full 99%
of my net worth lodged in Berkshire stock. I have never sold any shares and have no plans to do so. My only disposal
of Berkshire shares, aside from charitable donations and minor personal gifts, took place in 1980, when I, along with
other Berkshire stockholders who elected to participate, exchanged some of our Berkshire shares for the shares of an
Illinois bank that Berkshire had purchased in 1969 and that, in 1980, needed to be offloaded because of changes in the
bank holding company law.
Today, my will specifically directs its executors – as well as the trustees who will succeed them in
administering my estate after the will is closed – not to sell any Berkshire shares. My will also absolves both the
executors and the trustees from liability for maintaining what obviously will be an extreme concentration of assets.
The will goes on to instruct the executors – and, in time, the trustees – to each year convert a portion of my
A shares into B shares and then distribute the Bs to various foundations. Those foundations will be required to deploy
their grants promptly. In all, I estimate that it will take 12 to 15 years for the entirety of the Berkshire shares I hold at
my death to move into the market.
Absent my will’s directive that all my Berkshire shares should be held until their scheduled distribution dates,
the “safe” course for both my executors and trustees would be to sell the Berkshire shares under their temporary
control and reinvest the proceeds in U.S. Treasury bonds with maturities matching the scheduled dates for
distributions. That strategy would leave the fiduciaries immune from both public criticism and the possibility of
personal liability for failure to act in accordance with the “prudent man” standard.

11

I myself feel comfortable that Berkshire shares will provide a safe and rewarding investment during the
disposal period. There is always a chance – unlikely, but not negligible – that events will prove me wrong. I believe,
however, that there is a high probability that my directive will deliver substantially greater resources to society than
would result from a conventional course of action.
Key to my “Berkshire-only” instructions is my faith in the future judgment and fidelity of Berkshire directors.
They will regularly be tested by Wall Streeters bearing fees. At many companies, these super-salesmen might win. I
do not, however, expect that to happen at Berkshire.
Boards of Directors
In recent years, both the composition of corporate boards and their purpose have become hot topics. Once,
debate about the responsibilities of boards was largely limited to lawyers; today, institutional investors and politicians
have weighed in as well.
My credentials for discussing corporate governance include the fact that, over the last 62 years, I have served
as a director of 21 publicly-owned companies (listed below). In all but two of them, I have represented a substantial
holding of stock. In a few cases, I have tried to implement important change.
During the first 30 or so years of my services, it was rare to find a woman in the room unless she represented
a family controlling the enterprise. This year, it should be noted, marks the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment,
which guaranteed American women the right to have their voices heard in a voting booth. Their attaining similar status
in a board room remains a work in progress.
Over the years, many new rules and guidelines pertaining to board composition and duties have come into
being. The bedrock challenge for directors, nevertheless, remains constant: Find and retain a talented CEO –
possessing integrity, for sure – who will be devoted to the company for his/her business lifetime. Often, that task is
hard. When directors get it right, though, they need to do little else. But when they mess it up, . . . . . .
Audit committees now work much harder than they once did and almost always view the job with appropriate
seriousness. Nevertheless, these committees remain no match for managers who wish to game numbers, an offense
that has been encouraged by the scourge of earnings “guidance” and the desire of CEOs to “hit the number.” My direct
experience (limited, thankfully) with CEOs who have played with a company’s numbers indicates that they were more
often prompted by ego than by a desire for financial gain.
Compensation committees now rely much more heavily on consultants than they used to. Consequently,
compensation arrangements have become more complicated – what committee member wants to explain paying large
fees year after year for a simple plan? – and the reading of proxy material has become a mind-numbing experience.
One very important improvement in corporate governance has been mandated: a regularly-scheduled
“executive session” of directors at which the CEO is barred. Prior to that change, truly frank discussions of a CEO’s
skills, acquisition decisions and compensation were rare.
Acquisition proposals remain a particularly vexing problem for board members. The legal orchestration for
making deals has been refined and expanded (a word aptly describing attendant costs as well). But I have yet to see a