who came to the meeting did their part, and almost every location racked up record sales. But you can do better.
(A friendly warning: If I find sales are lagging, I lock the exits.)
This year Clayton will showcase its new i-house that includes Shaw flooring, Johns Manville insulation
and MiTek fasteners. This innovative “green” home, featuring solar panels and numerous other energy-saving
products, is truly a home of the future. Estimated costs for electricity and heating total only about $1 per day
when the home is sited in an area like Omaha. After purchasing the i-house, you should next consider the Forest
River RV and pontoon boat on display nearby. Make your neighbors jealous.
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a
shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 44 of the 50 jurisdictions in which we
operate. (One supplemental point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as that given
certain groups.) Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you money. For
at least 50% of you, I believe we can.
On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of NetJets aircraft available for your
inspection. Stop by the NetJets booth at the Qwest to learn about viewing these planes. Come to Omaha by bus;
leave in your new plane. And take along – with no fear of a strip search – the Ginsu knives that you’ve purchased
at the exhibit of our Quikut subsidiary.
Next, if you have any money left, visit the Bookworm, which will be selling about 30 books and
DVDs. A shipping service will be available for those whose thirst for knowledge exceeds their carrying capacity.

21

Finally, we will have three fascinating cars on the exhibition floor, including one from the past and one
of the future. Paul Andrews, CEO of our subsidiary, TTI, will bring his 1935 Duesenberg, a car that once
belonged to Mrs. Forrest Mars, Sr., parent and grandparent of our new partners in the Wrigley purchase. The
future will be represented by a new plug-in electric car developed by BYD, an amazing Chinese company in
which we have a 10% interest.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car reservations,
we have again signed up American Express (800-799-6634) to give you special help. Carol Pedersen, who
handles these matters, does a terrific job for us each year, and I thank her for it. Hotel rooms can be hard to find,
but work with Carol and you will get one.
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we
will again be having “Berkshire Weekend” discount pricing. We initiated this special event at NFM twelve years
ago, and sales during the “Weekend” grew from $5.3 million in 1997 to a record $33.3 million in 2008. On
Saturday of that weekend, we also set a single day record of $7.2 million. Ask any retailer what he thinks of such
volume.
To obtain the Berkshire discount, you must make your purchases between Thursday, April 30th and
Monday, May 4th inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period’s special pricing will even
apply to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting
but which, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their
cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Sunday.
On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., NFM is having a western cookout to which you are all invited.
At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholder-only events. The first will be a cocktail reception
from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday, May 1st. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, May 3rd, from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m.
We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, therefore,
shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 27th through Saturday, May 9th. During that period,
please identify yourself as a shareholder by presenting your meeting credentials or a brokerage statement that
shows you are a Berkshire holder.
On Sunday, in the mall outside of Borsheims, a blindfolded Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion,
will take on all comers – who will have their eyes wide open – in groups of six. Nearby, Norman Beck, a
remarkable magician from Dallas, will bewilder onlookers. Additionally, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon
Osberg, two of the world’s top bridge experts, available to play bridge with our shareholders on Sunday
afternoon.
Gorat’s will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 3rd, and will be
serving from 1 p.m. until 10 p.m. Last year Gorat’s, which seats 240, served 975 dinners on Shareholder Sunday.
The three-day total was 2,448 including 702 T-bone steaks, the entrée preferred by the cognoscenti. Please don’t
embarrass me by ordering foie gras. Remember: To come to Gorat’s on that day, you must have a reservation. To
make one, call 402-551-3733 on April 1st (but not before).
We will again have a reception at 4 p.m. on Saturday afternoon for shareholders who have come from
outside North America. Every year our meeting draws many people from around the globe, and Charlie and I
want to be sure we personally greet those who have come so far. Last year we enjoyed meeting more than 700 of
you from many dozens of countries. Any shareholder who comes from outside the U.S. or Canada will be given a
special credential and instructions for attending this function.
************

22

This year we will be making important changes in how we handle the meeting’s question periods. In
recent years, we have received only a handful of questions directly related to Berkshire and its operations. Last
year there were practically none. So we need to steer the discussion back to Berkshire’s businesses.
In a related problem, there has been a mad rush when the doors open at 7 a.m., led by people who wish
to be first in line at the 12 microphones available for questioners. This is not desirable from a safety standpoint,
nor do we believe that sprinting ability should be the determinant of who gets to pose questions. (At age 78, I’ve
concluded that speed afoot is a ridiculously overrated talent.) Again, a new procedure is desirable.
In our first change, several financial journalists from organizations representing newspapers,
magazines and television will participate in the question-and-answer period, asking Charlie and me questions that
shareholders have submitted by e-mail. The journalists and their e-mail addresses are: Carol Loomis, of Fortune,
who may be emailed at cloomis@fortunemail.com; Becky Quick, of CNBC, at BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com,
and Andrew Ross Sorkin, of The New York Times, at arsorkin@nytimes.com. From the questions submitted,
each journalist will choose the dozen or so he or she decides are the most interesting and important. (In your
e-mail, let the journalist know if you would like your name mentioned if your question is selected.)
Neither Charlie nor I will get so much as a clue about the questions to be asked. We know the
journalists will pick some tough ones and that’s the way we like it.
In our second change, we will have a drawing at 8:15 at each microphone for those shareholders
hoping to ask questions themselves. At the meeting, I will alternate the questions asked by the journalists with
those from the winning shareholders. At least half the questions – those selected by the panel from your
submissions – are therefore certain to be Berkshire-related. We will meanwhile continue to get some good – and
perhaps entertaining – questions from the audience as well.
So join us at our Woodstock for Capitalists and let us know how you like the new format. Charlie and I
look forward to seeing you.
February 27, 2009
