sort of shareholder - and, just as important, can continue to be 
uninteresting to those with short-term or unrealistic 
expectations - Berkshire shares should consistently sell at 
prices reasonably related to business value.
David L. Dodd
Dave Dodd, my friend and teacher for 38 years, died last 
year at age 93.  Most of you don’t know of him.  Yet any long-
time shareholder of Berkshire is appreciably wealthier because of 
the indirect influence he had upon our company.

     Dave spent a lifetime teaching at Columbia University, and 
he co-authored
Security Analysis
with Ben Graham.  From the 
moment I arrived at Columbia, Dave personally encouraged and 
educated me; one influence was as important as the other.  
Everything he taught me, directly or through his book, made 
sense.  Later, through dozens of letters, he continued my 
education right up until his death.

     I have known many professors of finance and investments but 
I have never seen any, except for Ben Graham, who was the match 
of Dave.  The proof of his talent is the record of his students: 
No other teacher of investments has sent forth so many who have 
achieved unusual success.

     When students left Dave’s classroom, they were equipped to 
invest intelligently for a lifetime because the principles he 
taught were simple, sound, useful, and enduring.  Though these 
may appear to be unremarkable virtues, the teaching of principles 
embodying them has been rare.

     It’s particularly impressive that Dave could practice as 
well as preach. just as Keynes became wealthy by applying his 
academic ideas to a very small purse, so, too, did Dave.  Indeed, 
his financial performance far outshone that of Keynes, who began 
as a market-timer (leaning on business and credit-cycle theory) 
and converted, after much thought, to value investing.  Dave was 
right from the start.

     In Berkshire’s investments, Charlie and I have employed the 
principles taught by Dave and Ben Graham.  Our prosperity is the 
fruit of their intellectual tree.
Miscellaneous
We hope to buy more businesses that are similar to the ones 
we have, and we can use some help.  If you have a business that 
fits the following criteria, call me or, preferably, write.

     Here’s what we’re looking for:

     (1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
         earnings),

     (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future projections 
         are of little interest to us, nor are “turnaround” 
         situations),

     (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while employing 
         little or no debt,

     (4) management in place (we can’t supply it),

     (5) simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we won’t 
         understand it),

     (6) an offering price (we don’t want to waste our time or that 
         of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, about a 
         transaction when price is unknown).

     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we’re interested.  We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive 
as much in intrinsic business value as we give.

     Our favorite form of purchase is one fitting the Blumkin-
Friedman-Heldman mold.  In cases like these, the company’s owner-
managers wish to generate significant amounts of cash, sometimes 
for themselves, but often for their families or inactive 
shareholders.  However, these managers also wish to remain 
significant owners who continue to run their companies just as 
they have in the past.  We think we offer a particularly good fit 
for owners with these objectives and invite potential sellers to 
check us out by contacting people with whom we have done business 
in the past.

     Charlie and I frequently get approached about acquisitions 
that don’t come close to meeting our tests: We’ve found that if 
you advertise an interest in buying collies, a lot of people will 
call hoping to sell you their cocker spaniels.  Our interest in 
new ventures, turnarounds, or auction-like sales can best be 
expressed by another Goldwynism: “Please include me out.”

     Besides being interested in the purchase of businesses as 
described above, we are also interested in the negotiated 
purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of stock 
comparable to those we hold in Cap Cities and Salomon.  We have a 
special interest in purchasing convertible preferreds as a long-
term investment, as we did at Salomon.

                             *  *  *

     We received some good news a few weeks ago: Standard & 
Poor’s raised our credit rating to AAA, which is the highest 
rating it bestows.  Only 15 other U.S. industrial or property-
casualty companies are rated AAA, down from 28 in 1980.

     Corporate bondholders have taken their lumps in the past few 
years from “event risk.” This term refers to the overnight 
degradation of credit that accompanies a heavily-leveraged 
purchase or recapitalization of a business whose financial 
policies, up to then, had been conservative.  In a world of 
takeovers inhabited by few owner-managers, most corporations 
present such a risk.  Berkshire does not.  Charlie and I promise 
bondholders the same respect we afford shareholders.

                             *  *  *

     About 97.4% of all eligible shares participated in 
Berkshire’s 1988 shareholder-designated contributions program.  
Contributions made through the program were $5 million, and 2,319 
charities were recipients.  If we achieve reasonable business 
results, we plan to increase the per-share contributions in 1989.

     We urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
pages 48-49.  If you wish to participate in future programs, we 
strongly urge that you immediately make sure your shares are 
registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the nominee 
name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so registered 
on September 30, 1989 will be ineligible for the 1989 program.

                             *  *  *

     Berkshire’s annual meeting will be held in Omaha on Monday, 
April 24, 1989, and I hope you will come.  The meeting provides 
the forum for you to ask any owner-related questions you may 
have, and we will keep answering until all (except those dealing 
with portfolio activities or other proprietary information) have 
been dealt with.

     After the meeting we will have several buses available to 
take you to visit Mrs. B at The Nebraska Furniture Mart and Ike 
Friedman at Borsheim’s.  Be prepared for bargains.

     Out-of-towners may prefer to arrive early and visit Mrs. B 
during the Sunday store hours of noon to five. (These Sunday 
hours seem ridiculously short to Mrs. B, who feels they scarcely 
allow her time to warm up; she much prefers the days on which the 
store remains open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.) Borsheims, however, is 
not open on Sunday.

     Ask Mrs. B the secret of her astonishingly low carpet 
prices.  She will confide to you - as she does to everyone - how 
she does it: “I can sell so cheap ‘cause I work for this dummy 
who doesn’t know anything about carpet.”


                                         Warren E. Buffett
February 28, 1989                        Chairman of the Board
