We've yet to find a CEO who believes he should personally fund the 
charities favored by his shareholders.  Why, then, should they foot 
the bill for his picks?

     Let me add that our program is easy to administer.  Last fall, 
for two months, we borrowed one person from National Indemnity to 
help us implement the instructions that came from our 7,500 
registered shareholders.  I'd guess that the average corporate 
program in which employee gifts are matched incurs far greater 
administrative costs.  Indeed, our entire corporate overhead is 
less than half the size of our charitable contributions.
(Charlie, 
however, insists that I tell you that $1.4 million of our $4.9 million overhead is 
attributable to our corporate jet, The Indefensible.)
Below is a list showing the largest categories to which our 
shareholders have steered their contributions.

     (a) 347 churches and synagogues received 569 gifts
     (b) 283 colleges and universities received 670 gifts
     (c) 244 K-12 schools (about two-thirds secular, one-
         third religious) received 525 gifts
     (d) 288 institutions dedicated to art, culture or the 
         humanities received 447 gifts
     (e) 180 religious social-service organizations (split 
         about equally between Christian and Jewish) received 
         411 gifts 
     (f) 445 secular social-service organizations (about 40% 
         youth-related) received 759 gifts
     (g) 153 hospitals received 261 gifts
     (h) 186 health-related organizations (American Heart 
         Association, American Cancer Society, etc.) received 
         320 gifts

     Three things about this list seem particularly interesting to 
me.  First, to some degree it indicates what people choose to give 
money to when they are acting of their own accord, free of pressure 
from solicitors or emotional appeals from charities.  Second, the 
contributions programs of publicly-held companies almost never 
allow gifts to churches and synagogues, yet clearly these 
institutions are what many shareholders would like to support.  
Third, the gifts made by our shareholders display conflicting 
philosophies:  130 gifts were directed to organizations that 
believe in making abortions readily available for women and 30 
gifts were directed to organizations (other than churches) that 
discourage or are opposed to abortion.

     Last year I told you that I was thinking of raising the amount 
that Berkshire shareholders can give under our designated-
contributions program and asked for your comments.  We received a 
few well-written letters opposing the entire idea, on the grounds 
that it was our job to run the business and not our job to force 
shareholders into making charitable gifts.  Most of the 
shareholders responding, however, noted the tax efficiency of the 
plan and urged us to increase the designated amount.  Several 
shareholders who have given stock to their children or 
grandchildren told me that they consider the program a particularly 
good way to get youngsters thinking at an early age about the 
subject of giving.  These people, in other words, perceive the 
program to be an educational, as well as philanthropic, tool.  The 
bottom line is that we did raise the amount in 1993, from $8 per 
share to $10.

     In addition to the shareholder-designated contributions that 
Berkshire distributes, our operating businesses make contributions, 
including merchandise, averaging about $2.5 million annually.  
These contributions support local charities, such as The United 
Way, and produce roughly commensurate benefits for our businesses.

     We suggest that new shareholders read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on pages 
50-51.
To participate in future programs, you must make sure your 
shares are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the 
nominee name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so 
registered on August 31, 1994 will be ineligible for the 1994 
program.
A Few Personal Items
Mrs. B - Rose Blumkin - had her 100th birthday on December 3, 
1993.  (The candles cost more than the cake.)  That was a day on 
which the store was scheduled to be open in the evening.  Mrs. B, 
who works seven days a week, for however many hours the store 
operates, found the proper decision quite obvious:  She simply 
postponed her party until an evening when the store was closed.

     Mrs. B's story is well-known but worth telling again.  She 
came to the United States 77 years ago, unable to speak English and 
devoid of formal schooling.  In 1937, she founded the Nebraska 
Furniture Mart with $500.  Last year the store had sales of $200 
million, a larger amount by far than that recorded by any other 
home furnishings store in the United States.  Our part in all of 
this began ten years ago when Mrs. B sold control of the business 
to Berkshire Hathaway, a deal we completed without obtaining 
audited financial statements, checking real estate records, or 
getting any warranties.  In short, her word was good enough for us.

     Naturally, I was delighted to attend Mrs. B's birthday party. 
After all, she's promised to attend
my
100th.

                     * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Katharine Graham retired last year as the chairman of The 
Washington Post Company, having relinquished the CEO title three 
years ago.  In 1973, we purchased our stock in her company for 
about $10 million.  Our holding now garners $7 million a year in 
dividends and is worth over $400 million.  At the time of our 
purchase, we knew that the economic prospects of the company were 
good.  But equally important, Charlie and I concluded that Kay 
would prove to be an outstanding manager and would treat all 
shareholders honorably.  That latter consideration was particularly 
important because The Washington Post Company has two classes of 
stock, a structure that we've seen some managers abuse.

     All of our judgments about this investment have been validated 
by events.  Kay's skills as a manager were underscored this past 
year when she was elected by
Fortune's
Board of Editors to the 
Business Hall of Fame.  On behalf of our shareholders, Charlie and 
I had long ago put her in Berkshire's Hall of Fame.

                     * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Another of last year's retirees was Don Keough of Coca-Cola, 
although, as he puts it, his retirement lasted "about 14 hours."  
Don is one of the most extraordinary human beings I've ever known - 
a man of enormous business talent, but, even more important, a man 
who brings out the absolute best in everyone lucky enough to 
associate with him.  Coca-Cola wants its product to be present at 
the happy times of a person's life.  Don Keough, as an individual, 
invariably increases the happiness of those around him.  It's 
impossible to think about Don without feeling good.

     I will edge up to how I met Don by slipping in a plug for my 
neighborhood in Omaha:  Though Charlie has lived in California for 
45 years, his home as a boy was about 200 feet away from the house 
where I now live; my wife, Susie, grew up 1 1/2 blocks away; and we 
have about 125 Berkshire shareholders in the zip code.  As for Don, 
in 1958 he bought the house directly across the street from mine.  
He was then a coffee salesman with a big family and a small income.

     The impressions I formed in those days about Don were a factor 
in my decision to have Berkshire make a record $1 billion 
investment in Coca-Cola in 1988-89.  Roberto Goizueta had become 
CEO of Coke in 1981, with Don alongside as his partner.  The two of 
them took hold of a company that had stagnated during the previous 
decade and moved it from $4.4 billion of market value to $58 
billion in less than 13 years.  What a difference a pair of 
managers like this makes, even when their product has been around 
for 100 years.

                      * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Frank Rooney did double duty last year.  In addition to 
leading H. H. Brown to record profits - 35% above the 1992 high - 
he also was key to our merger with Dexter.

     Frank has known Harold Alfond and Peter Lunder for decades, 
and shortly after our purchase of H. H. Brown, told me what a 
wonderful operation they managed.  He encouraged us to get together 
and in due course we made a deal.  Frank told Harold and Peter that 
Berkshire would provide an ideal corporate "home" for Dexter, and 
that assurance undoubtedly contributed to their decision to join 
with us.

     I've told you in the past of Frank's extraordinary record in 
building Melville Corp. during his 23 year tenure as CEO.  Now, at 
72, he's setting an even faster pace at Berkshire.  Frank has a 
low-key, relaxed style, but don't let that fool you.  When he 
swings, the ball disappears far over the fence.
The Annual Meeting
This year the Annual Meeting will be held at the Orpheum 
Theater in downtown Omaha at 9:30 a.m. on Monday, April 25, 1994.  
A record 2,200 people turned up for the meeting last year, but the 
theater can handle many more.  We will have a display in the lobby 
featuring many of our consumer products - candy, spray guns, shoes, 