that the risk of loss is not significantly correlated with other 
risks we are insuring.  Very few insurers are willing to risk 
half that much on single events - although, just a short while 
ago, many were willing to lose five or ten times that amount as 
long as virtually all of the loss was for the account of their 
reinsurers.

     In mid-1985 our largest insurance company, National 
Indemnity Company, broadcast its willingness to underwrite large 
risks by running an ad in three issues of an insurance weekly.  
The ad solicited policies of only large size: those with a 
minimum premium of $1 million.  This ad drew a remarkable 600 
replies and ultimately produced premiums totaling about $50 
million. (Hold the applause: it’s all long-tail business and it 
will be at least five years before we know whether this marketing 
success was also an underwriting success.) Today, our insurance 
subsidiaries continue to be sought out by brokers searching for 
large net capacity.

     As I have said, this period of tightness will pass; insurers 
and reinsurers will return to underpricing.  But for a year or 
two we should do well in several segments of our insurance 
business.  Mike Goldberg has made many important improvements in 
the operation (prior mismanagement by your Chairman having 
provided him ample opportunity to do so).  He has been 
particularly successful recently in hiring young managers with 
excellent potential.  They will have a chance to show their stuff 
in 1986.

     Our combined ratio has improved - from 134 in 1984 to 111 in 
1985 - but continues to reflect past misdeeds.  Last year I told 
you of the major mistakes I had made in loss-reserving, and 
promised I would update you annually on loss-development figures.  
Naturally, I made this promise thinking my future record would be 
much improved.  So far this has not been the case.  Details on 
last year’s loss development are on pages 50-52.  They reveal 
significant underreserving at the end of 1984, as they did in the 
several years preceding.

     The only bright spot in this picture is that virtually all 
of the underreserving revealed in 1984 occurred in the 
reinsurance area - and there, in very large part, in a few 
contracts that were discontinued several years ago.  This 
explanation, however, recalls all too well a story told me many 
years ago by the then Chairman of General Reinsurance Company.  
He said that every year his managers told him that “except for 
the Florida hurricane” or “except for Midwestern tornadoes”, they 
would have had a terrific year.  Finally he called the group 
together and suggested that they form a new operation - the 
Except-For Insurance Company - in which they would henceforth 
place all of the business that they later wouldn’t want to count.

     In any business, insurance or otherwise, “except for” should 
be excised from the lexicon.  If you are going to play the game, 
you must count the runs scored against you in all nine innings.  
Any manager who consistently says “except for” and then reports 
on the lessons he has learned from his mistakes may be missing 
the only important lesson - namely, that the real mistake is not 
the act, but the actor.

     Inevitably, of course, business errors will occur and the 
wise manager will try to find the proper lessons in them.  But 
the trick is to learn most lessons from the experiences of 
others.  Managers who have learned much from personal experience 
in the past usually are destined to learn much from personal 
experience in the future.

     GEICO, 38%-owned by Berkshire, reported an excellent year in 
1985 in premium growth and investment results, but a poor year - 
by its lofty standards - in underwriting.  Private passenger auto 
and homeowners insurance were the only important lines in the 
industry whose results deteriorated significantly during the 
year.  GEICO did not escape the trend, although its record was 
far better than that of virtually all its major competitors.

     Jack Byrne left GEICO at mid-year to head Fireman’s Fund, 
leaving behind Bill Snyder as Chairman and Lou Simpson as Vice 
Chairman.  Jack’s performance in reviving GEICO from near-
bankruptcy was truly extraordinary, and his work resulted in 
enormous gains for Berkshire.  We owe him a great deal for that.

     We are equally indebted to Jack for an achievement that 
eludes most outstanding leaders: he found managers to succeed him 
who have talents as valuable as his own.  By his skill in 
identifying, attracting and developing Bill and Lou, Jack 
extended the benefits of his managerial stewardship well beyond 
his tenure.
Fireman’s Fund Quota-Share Contract
Never one to let go of a meal ticket, we have followed Jack 
Byrne to Fireman’s Fund (“FFIC”) where he is Chairman and CEO of 
the holding company.

     On September 1, 1985 we became a 7% participant in all of 
the business in force of the FFIC group, with the exception of 
reinsurance they write for unaffiliated companies.  Our contract 
runs for four years, and provides that our losses and costs will 
be proportionate to theirs throughout the contract period.  If 
there is no extension, we will thereafter have no participation 
in any ongoing business.  However, for a great many years in the 
future, we will be reimbursing FFIC for our 7% of the losses that 
occurred in the September 1, 1985 - August 31, 1989 period.

     Under the contract FFIC remits premiums to us promptly and 
we reimburse FFIC promptly for expenses and losses it has paid.  
Thus, funds generated by our share of the business are held by us 
for investment.  As part of the deal, I’m available to FFIC for 
consultation about general investment strategy.  I’m not 
involved, however, in specific investment decisions of FFIC, nor 
is Berkshire involved in any aspect of the company’s underwriting 
activities.

     Currently FFIC is doing about $3 billion of business, and it 
will probably do more as rates rise.  The company’s September 1, 
1985 unearned premium reserve was $1.324 billion, and it 
therefore transferred 7% of this, or $92.7 million, to us at 
initiation of the contract.  We concurrently paid them $29.4 
million representing the underwriting expenses that they had 
incurred on the transferred premium.  All of the FFIC business is 
written by National Indemnity Company, but two-sevenths of it is 
passed along to Wesco-Financial Insurance Company (“Wes-FIC”), a 
new company organized by our 80%-owned subsidiary, Wesco 
Financial Corporation.  Charlie Munger has some interesting 
comments about Wes-FIC and the reinsurance business on pages 60-
62.

     To the Insurance Segment tables on page 41, we have added a 
new line, labeled Major Quota Share Contracts.  The 1985 results 
of the FFIC contract are reported there, though the newness of 
the arrangement makes these results only very rough 
approximations.

After the end of the year, we secured another quota-share 
contract, whose 1986 volume should be over $50 million.  We hope 
to develop more of this business, and industry conditions suggest 
that we could: a significant number of companies are generating 
more business than they themselves can prudently handle.  Our 
financial strength makes us an attractive partner for such 
companies.
Marketable Securities
We show below our 1985 yearend net holdings in marketable 
equities.  All positions with a market value over $25 million are 
listed, and the interests attributable to minority shareholders 
of Wesco and Nebraska Furniture Mart are excluded.
No. of Shares                                           Cost       Market
-------------                                        ----------  ----------
                                                         (000s omitted)
1,036,461    Affiliated Publications, Inc. .......   $ 3,516    $  55,710
    900,800    American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.    54,435      108,997
  2,350,922    Beatrice Companies, Inc. ............   106,811      108,142
  6,850,000    GEICO Corporation ...................    45,713      595,950
  2,379,200    Handy & Harman ......................    27,318       43,718
    847,788    Time, Inc. ..........................    20,385       52,669
  1,727,765    The Washington Post Company .........     9,731      205,172
                                                     ----------  ----------
                                                       267,909    1,170,358
               All Other Common Stockholdings ......     7,201       27,963
                                                     ----------  ----------
               Total Common Stocks                    $275,110   $1,198,321
                                                     ==========  ==========

     We mentioned earlier that in the past decade the investment 
environment has changed from one in which great businesses were 
totally unappreciated to one in which they are appropriately 
recognized.  The Washington Post Company (“WPC”) provides an 
excellent example.

     We bought all of our WPC holdings in mid-1973 at a price of 
not more than one-fourth of the then per-share business value of 
the enterprise.  Calculating the price/value ratio required no 
unusual insights.  Most security analysts, media brokers, and 
media executives would have estimated WPC’s intrinsic business 
value at $400 to $500 million just as we did.  And its $100 
million stock market valuation was published daily for all to 
see.  Our advantage, rather, was attitude: we had learned from 
Ben Graham that the key to successful investing was the purchase 
of shares in good businesses when market prices were at a large 
discount from underlying business values.

     Most institutional investors in the early 1970s, on the 
other hand, regarded business value as of only minor relevance 
when they were deciding the prices at which they would buy or 
sell.  This now seems hard to believe.  However, these 
institutions were then under the spell of academics at 
prestigious business schools who were preaching a newly-fashioned 