that meant somewhat lower proceeds for us.  But the economics 
that were finally obvious to me were also obvious to others, and 
interest was nil.

     I won’t close down businesses of sub-normal profitability 
merely to add a fraction of a point to our corporate rate of 
return.  However, I also feel it inappropriate for even an 
exceptionally profitable company to fund an operation once it 
appears to have unending losses in prospect.  Adam Smith would 
disagree with my first proposition, and Karl Marx would disagree 
with my second; the middle ground is the only position that 
leaves me comfortable.

     I should reemphasize that Ken and Garry have been 
resourceful, energetic and imaginative in attempting to make our 
textile operation a success.  Trying to achieve sustainable 
profitability, they reworked product lines, machinery 
configurations and distribution arrangements.  We also made a 
major acquisition, Waumbec Mills, with the expectation of 
important synergy (a term widely used in business to explain an 
acquisition that otherwise makes no sense).  But in the end 
nothing worked and I should be faulted for not quitting sooner.  
A recent
Business Week
article stated that 250 textile mills have 
closed since 1980.  Their owners were not privy to any 
information that was unknown to me; they simply processed it more 
objectively.  I ignored Comte’s advice - “the intellect should be 
the servant of the heart, but not its slave” - and believed what 
I preferred to believe.

     The domestic textile industry operates in a commodity 
business, competing in a world market in which substantial excess 
capacity exists.  Much of the trouble we experienced was 
attributable, both directly and indirectly, to competition from 
foreign countries whose workers are paid a small fraction of the 
U.S. minimum wage.  But that in no way means that our labor force 
deserves any blame for our closing.  In fact, in comparison with 
employees of American industry generally, our workers were poorly 
paid, as has been the case throughout the textile business.  In 
contract negotiations, union leaders and members were sensitive 
to our disadvantageous cost position and did not push for 
unrealistic wage increases or unproductive work practices.  To 
the contrary, they tried just as hard as we did to keep us 
competitive.  Even during our liquidation period they performed 
superbly. (Ironically, we would have been better off financially 
if our union had behaved unreasonably some years ago; we then 
would have recognized the impossible future that we faced, 
promptly closed down, and avoided significant future losses.)

     Over the years, we had the option of making large capital 
expenditures in the textile operation that would have allowed us 
to somewhat reduce variable costs.  Each proposal to do so looked 
like an immediate winner.  Measured by standard return-on-
investment tests, in fact, these proposals usually promised 
greater economic benefits than would have resulted from 
comparable expenditures in our highly-profitable candy and 
newspaper businesses.

     But the promised benefits from these textile investments 
were illusory.  Many of our competitors, both domestic and 
foreign, were stepping up to the same kind of expenditures and, 
once enough companies did so, their reduced costs became the 
baseline for reduced prices industrywide.  Viewed individually, 
each company’s capital investment decision appeared cost-
effective and rational; viewed collectively, the decisions 
neutralized each other and were irrational (just as happens when 
each person watching a parade decides he can see a little better 
if he stands on tiptoes).  After each round of investment, all 
the players had more money in the game and returns remained 
anemic.

     Thus, we faced a miserable choice: huge capital investment 
would have helped to keep our textile business alive, but would 
have left us with terrible returns on ever-growing amounts of 
capital.  After the investment, moreover, the foreign competition 
would still have retained a major, continuing advantage in labor 
costs.  A refusal to invest, however, would make us increasingly 
non-competitive, even measured against domestic textile 
manufacturers.  I always thought myself in the position described 
by Woody Allen in one of his movies: “More than any other time in 
history, mankind faces a crossroads.  One path leads to despair 
and utter hopelessness, the other to total extinction.  Let us 
pray we have the wisdom to choose correctly.”

     For an understanding of how the to-invest-or-not-to-invest 
dilemma plays out in a commodity business, it is instructive to 
look at Burlington Industries, by far the largest U.S. textile 
company both 21 years ago and now.  In 1964 Burlington had sales 
of $1.2 billion against our $50 million.  It had strengths in 
both distribution and production that we could never hope to 
match and also, of course, had an earnings record far superior to 
ours.  Its stock sold at 60 at the end of 1964; ours was 13.

     Burlington made a decision to stick to the textile business, 
and in 1985 had sales of about $2.8 billion.  During the 1964-85 
period, the company made capital expenditures of about $3 
billion, far more than any other U.S. textile company and more 
than $200-per-share on that $60 stock.  A very large part of the 
expenditures, I am sure, was devoted to cost improvement and 
expansion.  Given Burlington’s basic commitment to stay in 
textiles, I would also surmise that the company’s capital 
decisions were quite rational.

     Nevertheless, Burlington has lost sales volume in real 
dollars and has far lower returns on sales and equity now than 20 
years ago.  Split 2-for-1 in 1965, the stock now sells at 34 -- 
on an adjusted basis, just a little over its $60 price in 1964.  
Meanwhile, the CPI has more than tripled.  Therefore, each share 
commands about one-third the purchasing power it did at the end 
of 1964.  Regular dividends have been paid but they, too, have 
shrunk significantly in purchasing power.

     This devastating outcome for the shareholders indicates what 
can happen when much brain power and energy are applied to a 
faulty premise.  The situation is suggestive of Samuel Johnson’s 
horse: “A horse that can count to ten is a remarkable horse - not 
a remarkable mathematician.” Likewise, a textile company that 
allocates capital brilliantly within its industry is a remarkable 
textile company - but not a remarkable business.

     My conclusion from my own experiences and from much 
observation of other businesses is that a good managerial record 
(measured by economic returns) is far more a function of what 
business boat you get into than it is of how effectively you row 
(though intelligence and effort help considerably, of course, in 
any business, good or bad).  Some years ago I wrote: “When a 
management with a reputation for brilliance tackles a business 
with a reputation for poor fundamental economics, it is the 
reputation of the business that remains intact.” Nothing has 
since changed my point of view on that matter.  Should you find 
yourself in a chronically-leaking boat, energy devoted to 
changing vessels is likely to be more productive than energy 
devoted to patching leaks.

                            *  *  *

     There is an investment postscript in our textile saga.  Some 
investors weight book value heavily in their stock-buying 
decisions (as I, in my early years, did myself).  And some 
economists and academicians believe replacement values are of 
considerable importance in calculating an appropriate price level 
for the stock market as a whole.  Those of both persuasions would 
have received an education at the auction we held in early 1986 
to dispose of our textile machinery.

     The equipment sold (including some disposed of in the few 
months prior to the auction) took up about 750,000 square feet of 
factory space in New Bedford and was eminently usable.  It 
originally cost us about $13 million, including $2 million spent 
in 1980-84, and had a current book value of $866,000 (after 
accelerated depreciation).  Though no sane management would have 
made the investment, the equipment could have been replaced new 
for perhaps $30-$50 million.

     Gross proceeds from our sale of this equipment came to 
$163,122.  Allowing for necessary pre- and post-sale costs, our 
net was less than zero.  Relatively modern looms that we bought 
for $5,000 apiece in 1981 found no takers at $50.  We finally 
sold them for scrap at $26 each, a sum less than removal costs.

     Ponder this: the economic goodwill attributable to two paper 
routes in Buffalo - or a single See’s candy store - considerably 
exceeds the proceeds we received from this massive collection of 
tangible assets that not too many years ago, under different 
competitive conditions, was able to employ over 1,000 people.
Three Very Good Businesses (and a Few Thoughts About Incentive 
Compensation)
When I was 12, I lived with my grandfather for about four 
months.  A grocer by trade, he was also working on a book and 
each night he dictated a few pages to me.  The title - brace 
yourself - was “How to Run a Grocery Store and a Few Things I 
Have Learned About Fishing”.  My grandfather was sure that 
interest in these two subjects was universal and that the world 
awaited his views.  You may conclude from this section’s title 
and contents that I was overexposed to Grandpa’s literary style 