* Includes MedPro from June 30, 2005.
** Includes Applied Underwriters from May 19, 2006.
************
In 2007, our results from the bread-and-butter lines of insurance will deteriorate, though I think
they will remain satisfactory. The big unknown is super-cat insurance. Were the terrible hurricane seasons
of 2004-05 aberrations? Or were they our planet’s first warning that the climate of the 21st Century will
differ materially from what we’ve seen in the past? If the answer to the second question is yes, 2006 will
soon be perceived as a misleading period of calm preceding a series of devastating storms. These could
rock the insurance industry. It’s naïve to think of Katrina as anything close to a worst-case event.
Neither Ajit Jain, who manages our super-cat operation, nor I know what lies ahead. We do know
that it would be a huge mistake to bet that evolving atmospheric changes are benign in their implications
for insurers.
Don’t think, however, that we have lost our taste for risk. We remain prepared to lose $6 billion
in a single event, if we have been paid appropriately for assuming that risk. We are not willing, though, to
take on even very small exposures at prices that don’t reflect our evaluation of loss probabilities.
Appropriate prices don’t guarantee profits in any given year, but inappropriate prices most certainly
guarantee eventual losses. Rates have recently fallen because a flood of capital has entered the super-cat
field. We have therefore sharply reduced our wind exposures. Our behavior here parallels that which we
employ in financial markets: Be fearful when others are greedy, and be greedy when others are fearful.
Lloyd’s, Equitas and Retroactive Reinsurance
Last year – we are getting now to Equitas – Berkshire agreed to enter into a huge retroactive
reinsurance contract, a policy that protects an insurer against losses that have already happened, but whose
cost is not yet known. I’ll give you details of the agreement shortly. But let’s first take a journey through
insurance history, following the route that led to our deal.
Our tale begins around 1688, when Edward Lloyd opened a small coffee house in London.
Though no Starbucks, his shop was destined to achieve worldwide fame because of the commercial
activities of its clientele – shipowners, merchants and venturesome British capitalists. As these parties
sipped Edward’s brew, they began to write contracts transferring the risk of a disaster at sea from the
owners of ships and their cargo to the capitalists, who wagered that a given voyage would be completed
without incident. These capitalists eventually became known as “underwriters at Lloyd’s.”
Though many people believe Lloyd’s to be an insurance company, that is not the case. It is
instead a place where many member-insurers transact business, just as they did centuries ago.
Over time, the underwriters solicited passive investors to join in syndicates. Additionally, the
business broadened beyond marine risks into every imaginable form of insurance, including exotic
coverages that spread the fame of Lloyd’s far and wide. The underwriters left the coffee house, found
grander quarters and formalized some rules of association. And those persons who passively backed the
underwriters became known as “names.”

8

Eventually, the names came to include many thousands of people from around the world, who
joined expecting to pick up some extra change without effort or serious risk. True, prospective names were
always solemnly told that they would have unlimited and everlasting liability for the consequences of their
syndicate’s underwriting – “down to the last cufflink,” as the quaint description went. But that warning
came to be viewed as perfunctory. Three hundred years of retained cufflinks acted as a powerful sedative
to the names poised to sign up.
Then came asbestos. When its prospective costs were added to the tidal wave of environmental
and product claims that surfaced in the 1980s, Lloyd’s began to implode. Policies written decades earlier –
and largely forgotten about – were developing huge losses. No one could intelligently estimate their total,
but it was certain to be many tens of billions of dollars. The specter of unending and unlimited losses
terrified existing names and scared away prospects. Many names opted for bankruptcy; some even chose
suicide.
From these shambles, there came a desperate effort to resuscitate Lloyd’s. In 1996, the powers
that be at the institution allotted £11.1 billion to a new company, Equitas, and made it responsible for
paying all claims on policies written before 1993. In effect, this plan pooled the misery of the many
syndicates in trouble. Of course, the money allotted could prove to be insufficient – and if that happened,
the names remained liable for the shortfall.
But the new plan, by concentrating all of the liabilities in one place, had the advantage of
eliminating much of the costly intramural squabbling that went on among syndicates. Moreover, the
pooling allowed claims evaluation, negotiation and litigation to be handled more intelligently than had been
the case previously. Equitas embraced Ben Franklin’s thinking: “We must all hang together, or assuredly
we shall hang separately.”
From the start, many people predicted Equitas would eventually fail. But as Ajit and I reviewed
the facts in the spring of 2006 – 13 years after the last exposed policy had been written and after the
payment of £11.3 billion in claims – we concluded that the patient was likely to survive. And so we
decided to offer a huge reinsurance policy to Equitas.
Because plenty of imponderables continue to exist, Berkshire could not provide Equitas, and its
27,972 names, unlimited protection. But we said – and I’m simplifying – that if Equitas would give us
$7.12 billion in cash and securities (this is the float I spoke about), we would pay all of its future claims and
expenses up to $13.9 billion. That amount was $5.7 billion above what Equitas had recently guessed its
ultimate liabilities to be. Thus the names received a huge – and almost certainly sufficient – amount of
future protection against unpleasant surprises. Indeed the protection is so large that Equitas plans a cash
payment to its thousands of names, an event few of them had ever dreamed possible.
And how will Berkshire fare? That depends on how much “known” claims will end up costing us,
how many yet-to-be-presented claims will surface and what they will cost, how soon claim payments will
be made and how much we earn on the cash we receive before it must be paid out. Ajit and I think the odds
are in our favor. And should we be wrong, Berkshire can handle it.
Scott Moser, the CEO of Equitas, summarized the transaction neatly: “Names wanted to sleep
easy at night, and we think we’ve just bought them the world’s best mattress.”
***********
Warning: It’s time to eat your broccoli – I am now going to talk about accounting matters. I owe
this to those Berkshire shareholders who love reading about debits and credits. I hope both of you find this
discussion helpful. All others can skip this section; there will be no quiz.
Berkshire has done many retroactive transactions – in both number and amount a multiple of such
policies entered into by any other insurer. We are the reinsurer of choice for these coverages because the
obligations that are transferred to us – for example, lifetime indemnity and medical payments to be made to
injured workers – may not be fully satisfied for 50 years or more. No other company can offer the certainty

9

that Berkshire can, in terms of guaranteeing the full and fair settlement of these obligations. This fact is
important to the original insurer, policyholders and regulators.
The accounting procedure for retroactive transactions is neither well known nor intuitive. The
best way for shareholders to understand it, therefore, is for us to simply lay out the debits and credits.
Charlie and I would like to see this done more often. We sometimes encounter accounting footnotes about
important transactions that leave us baffled, and we go away suspicious that the reporting company wished
it that way. (For example, try comprehending transactions “described” in the old 10-Ks of Enron, even
after you know how the movie ended.)
So let us summarize our accounting for the Equitas transaction. The major debits will be to Cash
and Investments, Reinsurance Recoverable, and Deferred Charges for Reinsurance Assumed (“DCRA”).
The major credit will be to Reserve for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expense. No profit or loss will be
recorded at the inception of the transaction, but underwriting losses will thereafter be incurred annually as
the DCRA asset is amortized downward. The amount of the annual amortization charge will be primarily
determined by how our end-of-the-year estimates as to the timing and amount of future loss payments
compare to the estimates made at the beginning of the year. Eventually, when the last claim has been paid,
the DCRA account will be reduced to zero. That day is 50 years or more away.
What’s important to remember is that retroactive insurance contracts always produce underwriting