shareholders or analysts seek, we will simply guide them to our public documents.
This year we plan to post our quarterly reports on the Internet after the close of the market on May 14,
August 13, and November 12. We also expect to put the 1999 annual report on our website on Saturday, March
11, 2000, and to mail the print version at roughly the same time.
We promptly post press releases on our website. This means that you do not need to rely on the versions
of these reported by the media but can instead read the full text on your computer.
Despite the pathetic technical skills of your Chairman, I’m delighted to report that GEICO, Borsheim’s,
See’s, and The Buffalo News are now doing substantial business via the Internet. We’ve also recently begun to
offer annuity products on our website. This business was developed by Ajit Jain, who over the last decade has
personally accounted for a significant portion of Berkshire’s operating earnings. While Charlie and I sleep, Ajit
keeps thinking of new ways to add value to Berkshire.
Shareholder-Designated Contributions
About 97.5% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 1998 shareholder-designated contributions
program, with contributions totaling $16.9 million. A full description of the program appears on pages 54-55.
Cumulatively, over the 18 years of the program, Berkshire has made contributions of $130 million pursuant
to the instructions of our shareholders. The rest of Berkshire's giving is done by our subsidiaries, which stick
to the philanthropic patterns that prevailed before they were acquired (except that their former owners themselves
take on the responsibility for their personal charities). In aggregate, our subsidiaries made contributions of $12.5
million in 1998, including in-kind donations of $2.0 million.
To participate in future programs, you must own Class A shares that are registered in the name of the actual
owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not so registered on August 31, 1999, will
be ineligible for the 1999 program. When you get the contributions form from us, return it promptly so that it
does not get put aside or forgotten. Designations received after the due date will not be honored.
The Annual Meeting
This year’s Woodstock for Capitalists will be held May 1-3, and we may face a problem. Last year more
than 10,000 people attended our annual meeting, and our shareholders list has since doubled. So we don’t quite
know what attendance to expect this year. To be safe, we have booked both Aksarben Coliseum, which holds
about 14,000 and the Holiday Convention Centre, which can seat an additional 5,000. Because we know that our
Omaha shareholders will want to be good hosts to the out-of-towners (many of them come from outside the U.S),
we plan to give those visitors first crack at the Aksarben tickets and to subsequently allocate these to greater
Omaha residents on a first-come, first-served basis. If we exhaust the Aksarben tickets, we will begin distributing
Holiday tickets to Omaha shareholders.
If we end up using both locations, Charlie and I will split our pre-meeting time between the two.
Additionally, we will have exhibits and also the Berkshire movie, large television screens and microphones at both
sites. When we break for lunch, many attendees will leave Aksarben, which means that those at Holiday can,
if they wish, make the five-minute trip to Aksarben and finish out the day there. Buses will be available to
transport people who don’t have cars.

17

The doors will open at both locations at 7 a.m. on Monday, and at 8:30 we will premier the 1999 Berkshire
movie epic, produced by Marc Hamburg, our CFO. The meeting will last from 9:30 until 3:30, interrupted only
by the short lunch break.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the badge
you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car reservations, we have
again signed up American Express (800-799-6634) to give you special help. In our normal fashion, we will run
buses from the larger hotels to the meeting. After the meeting, these will make trips back to the hotels and to
Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim’s and the airport. Even so, you are likely to find a car useful.
The full line of Berkshire products will be available at Aksarben, and the more popular items will also be
at Holiday. Last year we set sales records across-the-board, moving 3,700 pounds of See’s candy, 1,635 pairs of
Dexter shoes, 1,150 sets of Quikut knives and 3,104 Berkshire shirts and hats. Additionally, $26,944 of World
Book products were purchased as well as more than 2,000 golf balls with the Berkshire Hathaway logo. Charlie
and I are pleased but not satisfied with these numbers and confidently predict new records in all categories this
year. Our 1999 apparel line will be unveiled at the meeting, so please defer your designer purchases until you
view our collection.
Dairy Queen will also be on hand and will again donate all proceeds to the Children’s Miracle Network.
Last year we sold about 4,000 Dilly® bars, fudge bars and vanilla/orange bars. Additionally, GEICO will have
a booth that will be manned by a number of our top counselors from around the country, all of them ready to
supply you with auto insurance quotes. In almost all cases, GEICO will be able to offer you a special
shareholder’s discount. Check out whether we can save you some money.
The piece de resistance of our one-company trade show will be a 79-foot-long, nearly 12-foot-wide, fullyoutfitted cabin of a 737 Boeing Business Jet (“BBJ”), which is NetJets’ newest product. This plane has a 14-hour
range; is designed to carry 19 passengers; and offers a bedroom, an office, and two showers. Deliveries to
fractional owners will begin in the first quarter of 2000.
The BBJ will be available for your inspection on May 1-3 near the entrance to the Aksarben hall. You
should be able to minimize your wait by making your visit on Saturday or Sunday. Bring along your checkbook
in case you decide to make an impulse purchase.
NFM's multi-stored complex, located on a 75-acre site about a mile from Aksarben, is open from 10 a.m.
to 9 p.m. on weekdays, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays. This operation did $300 million in
business during 1998 and offers an unrivaled breadth of merchandise — furniture, electronics, appliances, carpets
and computers — all at can’t-be-beat prices. During the April 30th to May 4th period, shareholders presenting
their meeting badge will receive a discount that is customarily given only to its employees.
Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open for shareholders from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on May
2nd. On annual meeting weekend last year, the store did an incredible amount of business. Sales were double
those of the previous year, and the store’s volume on Sunday greatly exceeded volume for any day in Borsheim’s
history. Charlie attributes this record to the fact that he autographed sales tickets that day and, while I have my
doubts about this proposition, we are not about to mess with a winning formula. Please give him writer’s cramp.
On last year’s Sunday, Borsheim’s wrote 2,501 tickets during the eight hours it was open. For those of you who
are mathematically challenged, that is one ticket every 11½ seconds.
Shareholders who wish to avoid Sunday’s crowd can visit Borsheim’s on Saturday (10 a.m.-5:30 p.m.) or
on Monday (10 a.m.-8 p.m.). Be sure to identify yourself as a Berkshire owner so that Susan Jacques, Borsheim’s
CEO, can quote you a ”shareholder-weekend” price. Susan joined us in 1983 as a $4-per-hour salesperson and
was made CEO in 1994. This move ranks as one of my best managerial decisions.
Bridge players can look forward to a thrill on Sunday, when Bob Hamman — the best the game has ever
seen — will turn up to play with our shareholders in the mall outside of Borsheim’s. Bob plays without sorting
his cards — hey, maybe that’s what’s wrong with my game. We will also have a couple of other tables at which
another expert or two will be playing.

18

Gorat’s — my favorite steakhouse — will again be open especially for Berkshire shareholders on the Sunday
night before the meeting. Though Gorat’s served from 4 p.m. until about 1 a.m. last year, its crew was swamped,
and some of our shareholders had an uncomfortable wait. This year fewer reservations will be accepted, and we
ask that you don’t come on Sunday without a reservation. In other years, many of our shareholders have chosen
to visit Gorat’s on Friday, Saturday or Monday. You can make reservations beginning on April 1 (but not before)
by calling 402-551-3733. The cognoscenti will continue to order rare T-bones with double orders of hash browns.
The Omaha Golden Spikes (neé the Omaha Royals) will meet the Iowa Cubs on Saturday evening, May 1st,