commodity positions be carried at market value. Therefore, both our annual
and quarterly financial statements reflect any unrealized gain or loss
in these contracts. When we established our contracts, oil for future delivery
seemed modestly underpriced. Today, though, we have no opinion as to its
attractiveness.

Our second non-traditional commitment
is in silver. Last year, we purchased 111.2 million ounces. Marked to market,
that position produced a pre-tax gain of $97.4 million for us in 1997.
In a way, this is a return to the past for me: Thirty years ago, I bought
silver because I anticipated its demonetization by the U.S. Government.
Ever since, I have followed the metal's fundamentals but not owned it.
In recent years, bullion inventories have fallen materially, and last summer
Charlie and I concluded that a higher price would be needed to establish
equilibrium between supply and demand. Inflation expectations, it should
be noted, play no part in our calculation of silver's value.

Finally, our largest non-traditional
position at yearend was $4.6 billion, at amortized cost, of long-term zero-coupon
obligations of the U.S. Treasury. These securities pay no interest. Instead,
they provide their holders a return by way of the discount at which they
are purchased, a characteristic that makes their market prices move rapidly
when interest rates change. If rates rise, you lose heavily with zeros,
and if rates fall, you make outsized gains. Since rates fell in 1997, we
ended the year with an unrealized pre-tax gain of $598.8 million in our
zeros. Because we carry the securities at market value, that gain is reflected
in yearend book value.

In purchasing zeros, rather than
staying with cash-equivalents, we risk looking very foolish: A macro-based
commitment such as this never has anything close to a 100% probability
of being successful. However, you pay Charlie and me to use our best judgment
-- not to avoid embarrassment -- and we will occasionally make an unconventional
move when we believe the odds favor it. Try to think kindly of us when
we blow one. Along with President Clinton, we will be feeling your pain:
The Munger family has more than 90% of its net worth in Berkshire and the
Buffetts more than 99%.

How We Think About Market Fluctuations

A short quiz: If you plan to eat
hamburgers throughout your life and are not a cattle producer, should you
wish for higher or lower prices for beef? Likewise, if you are going to
buy a car from time to time but are not an auto manufacturer, should you
prefer higher or lower car prices? These questions, of course, answer themselves.

But now for the final exam: If
you expect to be a net saver during the next five years, should you hope
for a higher or lower stock market during that period? Many investors get
this one wrong. Even though they are going to be net buyers of stocks for
many years to come, they are elated when stock prices rise and depressed
when they fall. In effect, they rejoice because prices have risen for the
"hamburgers" they will soon be buying. This reaction makes no
sense. Only those who will be sellers of equities in the near future should
be happy at seeing stocks rise. Prospective purchasers should much prefer
sinking prices.

For shareholders of Berkshire who
do not expect to sell, the choice is even clearer. To begin with, our owners
are automatically saving even if they spend every dime they personally
earn: Berkshire "saves" for them by retaining all earnings, thereafter
using these savings to purchase businesses and securities. Clearly, the
more cheaply we make these buys, the more profitable our owners' indirect
savings program will be.

Furthermore, through Berkshire
you own major positions in companies that consistently repurchase their
shares. The benefits that these programs supply us grow as prices fall:
When stock prices are low, the funds that an investee spends on repurchases
increase our ownership of that company by a greater amount than is the
case when prices are higher. For example, the repurchases that Coca-Cola,
The Washington Post and Wells Fargo made in past years at very low prices
benefitted Berkshire far more than do today's repurchases, made at loftier
prices.

At the end of every year, about
97% of Berkshire's shares are held by the same investors who owned them
at the start of the year. That makes them savers. They should therefore
rejoice when markets decline and allow both us and our investees to deploy
funds more advantageously.

So smile when you read a headline
that says "Investors lose as market falls." Edit it in your mind
to " Dis investors lose as market falls -- but investors gain."
Though writers often forget this truism, there is a buyer for every seller
and what hurts one necessarily helps the other. (As they say in golf matches:
"Every putt makes someone happy.")

We gained enormously from the low
prices placed on many equities and businesses in the 1970s and 1980s. Markets
that then were hostile to investment transients were friendly to those
taking up permanent residence. In recent years, the actions we took in
those decades have been validated, but we have found few new opportunities.
In its role as a corporate "saver," Berkshire continually looks
for ways to sensibly deploy capital, but it may be some time before we
find opportunities that get us truly excited.

Insurance Operations -- Overview

What does excite us, however, is
our insurance business. GEICO is flying, and we expect that it will continue
to do so. Before we expound on that, though, let's discuss "float"
and how to measure its cost. Unless you understand this subject, it will
be impossible for you to make an informed judgment about Berkshire's intrinsic
value.

To begin with, float is money we
hold but don't own. In an insurance operation, float arises because premiums
are received before losses are paid, an interval that sometimes extends
over many years. During that time, the insurer invests the money. Typically,
this pleasant activity carries with it a downside: The premiums that an
insurer takes in usually do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually
must pay. That leaves it running an "underwriting loss," which
is the cost of float. An insurance business has value if its cost of float
over time is less than the cost the company would otherwise incur to obtain
funds. But the business is a lemon if its cost of float is higher than
market rates for money.

A caution is appropriate here:
Because loss costs must be estimated, insurers have enormous latitude in
figuring their underwriting results, and that makes it very difficult for
investors to calculate a company's true cost of float. Estimating errors,
usually innocent but sometimes not, can be huge. The consequences of these
miscalculations flow directly into earnings. An experienced observer can
usually detect large-scale errors in reserving, but the general public
can typically do no more than accept what's presented, and at times I have
been amazed by the numbers that big-name auditors have implicitly blessed.
As for Berkshire, Charlie and I attempt to be conservative in presenting
its underwriting results to you, because we have found that virtually all
surprises in insurance are unpleasant ones.

As the numbers in the following
table show, Berkshire's insurance business has been a huge winner. For
the table, we have calculated our float -- which we generate in large amounts
relative to our premium volume -- by adding net loss reserves, loss adjustment
reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and unearned premium reserves,
and then subtracting agents' balances, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid
taxes and deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance. Our cost
of float is determined by our underwriting loss or profit. In those years
when we have had an underwriting profit, such as the last five, our cost
of float has been negative. In effect, we have been paid for holding money.

Since 1967, when we entered the
insurance business, our float has grown at an annual compounded rate of
21.7%. Better yet, it has cost us nothing, and in fact has made us money.
Therein lies an accounting irony: Though our float is shown on our balance
sheet as a liability, it has had a value to Berkshire greater than an equal
amount of net worth would have had.

The expiration of several large
contracts will cause our float to decline during the first quarter of 1998,
but we expect it to grow substantially over the long term. We also believe
that our cost of float will continue to be highly favorable.

Super-Cat Insurance

Occasionally, however, the cost
of our float will spike severely. That will occur because of our heavy
involvement in the super-cat business, which by its nature is the most
volatile of all insurance lines. In this operation, we sell policies that
insurance and reinsurance companies purchase in order to limit their losses
when mega-catastrophes strike. Berkshire is the preferred market for sophisticated
buyers: When the "big one" hits, the financial strength of super-cat