would leave all earnings in the company and each sell 3.2% of our shares annually. Since the shares would be sold
at 125% of book value, this approach would produce the same $40,000 of cash initially, a sum that would grow
annually. Call this option the “sell-off” approach.
Under this “sell-off” scenario, the net worth of our company increases to $6,211,696 after ten years
($2 million compounded at 12%). Because we would be selling shares each year, our percentage ownership would
have declined, and, after ten years, we would each own 36.12% of the business. Even so, your share of the net
worth of the company at that time would be $2,243,540. And, remember, every dollar of net worth attributable to
each of us can be sold for $1.25. Therefore, the market value of your remaining shares would be $2,804,425, about
4% greater than the value of your shares if we had followed the dividend approach.
Moreover, your annual cash receipts from the sell-off policy would now be running 4% more than you
would have received under the dividend scenario. Voila! – you would have both more cash to spend annually and
more capital value.
This calculation, of course, assumes that our hypothetical company can earn an average of 12% annually on
net worth and that its shareholders can sell their shares for an average of 125% of book value. To that point, the
S&P 500 earns considerably more than 12% on net worth and sells at a price far above 125% of that net worth.
Both assumptions also seem reasonable for Berkshire, though certainly not assured.
Moreover, on the plus side, there also is a possibility that the assumptions will be exceeded. If they are, the
argument for the sell-off policy becomes even stronger. Over Berkshire’s history – admittedly one that won’t come
close to being repeated – the sell-off policy would have produced results for shareholders dramatically superior to
the dividend policy.
Aside from the favorable math, there are two further – and important – arguments for a sell-off policy.
First, dividends impose a specific cash-out policy upon all shareholders. If, say, 40% of earnings is the policy, those
who wish 30% or 50% will be thwarted. Our 600,000 shareholders cover the waterfront in their desires for cash. It
is safe to say, however, that a great many of them – perhaps even most of them – are in a net-savings mode and
logically should prefer no payment at all.

20

The sell-off alternative, on the other hand, lets each shareholder make his own choice between cash receipts
and capital build-up. One shareholder can elect to cash out, say, 60% of annual earnings while other shareholders
elect 20% or nothing at all. Of course, a shareholder in our dividend-paying scenario could turn around and use his
dividends to purchase more shares. But he would take a beating in doing so: He would both incur taxes and also pay
a 25% premium to get his dividend reinvested. (Keep remembering, open-market purchases of the stock take place
at 125% of book value.)
The second disadvantage of the dividend approach is of equal importance: The tax consequences for all
taxpaying shareholders are inferior – usually far inferior – to those under the sell-off program. Under the dividend
program, all of the cash received by shareholders each year is taxed whereas the sell-off program results in tax on
only the gain portion of the cash receipts.
Let me end this math exercise – and I can hear you cheering as I put away the dentist drill – by using my
own case to illustrate how a shareholder’s regular disposals of shares can be accompanied by an increased
investment in his or her business. For the last seven years, I have annually given away about 4 1⁄ 4% of my Berkshire
shares. Through this process, my original position of 712,497,000 B-equivalent shares (split-adjusted) has
decreased to 528,525,623 shares. Clearly my ownership percentage of the company has significantly decreased.
Yet my investment in the business has actually increased: The book value of my current interest in
Berkshire considerably exceeds the book value attributable to my holdings of seven years ago. (The actual figures
are $28.2 billion for 2005 and $40.2 billion for 2012.) In other words, I now have far more money working for me
at Berkshire even though my ownership of the company has materially decreased. It’s also true that my share of
both Berkshire’s intrinsic business value and the company’s normal earning power is far greater than it was in 2005.
Over time, I expect this accretion of value to continue – albeit in a decidedly irregular fashion – even as I now
annually give away more than 4 1⁄ 2% of my shares (the increase having occurred because I’ve recently doubled my
lifetime pledges to certain foundations).
************
Above all, dividend policy should always be clear, consistent and rational. A capricious policy will
confuse owners and drive away would-be investors. Phil Fisher put it wonderfully 54 years ago in Chapter 7 of his
Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits, a book that ranks behind only The Intelligent Investor and the 1940 edition
of Security Analysis in the all-time-best list for the serious investor. Phil explained that you can successfully run a
restaurant that serves hamburgers or, alternatively, one that features Chinese food. But you can’t switch
capriciously between the two and retain the fans of either.
Most companies pay consistent dividends, generally trying to increase them annually and cutting them very
reluctantly. Our “Big Four” portfolio companies follow this sensible and understandable approach and, in certain
cases, also repurchase shares quite aggressively.
We applaud their actions and hope they continue on their present paths. We like increased dividends, and
we love repurchases at appropriate prices.
At Berkshire, however, we have consistently followed a different approach that we know has been sensible
and that we hope has been made understandable by the paragraphs you have just read. We will stick with this policy
as long as we believe our assumptions about the book-value buildup and the market-price premium seem reasonable.
If the prospects for either factor change materially for the worse, we will reexamine our actions.
The Annual Meeting
The annual meeting will be held on Saturday, May 4th at the CenturyLink Center. Carrie Sova will be in
charge. (Though that’s a new name, it’s the same wonderful Carrie as last year; she got married in June to a very
lucky guy.) All of our headquarters group pitches in to help her; the whole affair is a homemade production, and I
couldn’t be more proud of those who put it together.

21

The doors will open at 7 a.m., and at 7:30 we will have our second International Newspaper Tossing
Challenge. The target will be the porch of a Clayton Home, precisely 35 feet from the throwing line. Last year I
successfully fought off all challengers. But now Berkshire has acquired a large number of newspapers and with
them came much tossing talent (or so the throwers claim). Come see whether their talent matches their talk. Better
yet, join in. The papers will be 36 to 42 pages and you must fold them yourself (no rubber bands).
At 8:30, a new Berkshire movie will be shown. An hour later, we will start the question-and-answer
period, which (with a break for lunch at the CenturyLink’s stands) will last until 3:30. After a short recess, Charlie
and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:45. If you decide to leave during the day’s question periods, please do so
while Charlie is talking.
The best reason to exit, of course, is to shop. We will help you do so by filling the 194,300-square-foot hall
that adjoins the meeting area with products from dozens of Berkshire subsidiaries. Last year, you did your part, and
most locations racked up record sales. In a nine-hour period, we sold 1,090 pairs of Justin boots, (that’s a pair every
30 seconds), 10,010 pounds of See’s candy, 12,879 Quikut knives (24 knives per minute) and 5,784 pairs of Wells
Lamont gloves, always a hot item. But you can do better. Remember: Anyone who says money can’t buy happiness
simply hasn’t shopped at our meeting.
Last year, Brooks, our running shoe company, exhibited for the first time and ran up sales of $150,000.
Brooks is on fire: Its volume in 2012 grew 34%, and that was on top of a similar 34% gain in 2011. The company’s
management expects another jump of 23% in 2013. We will again have a special commemorative shoe to offer at
the meeting.
On Sunday at 8 a.m., we will initiate the “Berkshire 5K,” a race starting at the CenturyLink. Full details for
participating will be included in the Visitor’s Guide that you will receive with your credentials for the meeting. We
will have plenty of categories for competition, including one for the media. (It will be fun to report on their
performance.) Regretfully, I will forego running; someone has to man the starting gun.