---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2012
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2012ar/2012ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 348 - 1595
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
In 2012, Berkshire achieved a total gain for its shareholders of $24.1 billion. We used $1.3 billion of that
to repurchase our stock, which left us with an increase in net worth of $22.8 billion for the year. The per-share book
value of both our Class A and Class B stock increased by 14.4%. Over the last 48 years (that is, since present
management took over), book value has grown from $19 to $114,214, a rate of 19.7% compounded annually.*
A number of good things happened at Berkshire last year, but let’s first get the bad news out of the way.
Š

When the partnership I ran took control of Berkshire in 1965, I could never have dreamed that a year in
which we had a gain of $24.1 billion would be subpar, in terms of the comparison we present on the facing
page.
But subpar it was. For the ninth time in 48 years, Berkshire’s percentage increase in book value was less
than the S&P’s percentage gain (a calculation that includes dividends as well as price appreciation). In
eight of those nine years, it should be noted, the S&P had a gain of 15% or more. We do better when the
wind is in our face.
To date, we’ve never had a five-year period of underperformance, having managed 43 times to surpass the
S&P over such a stretch. (The record is on page 103.) But the S&P has now had gains in each of the last
four years, outpacing us over that period. If the market continues to advance in 2013, our streak of fiveyear wins will end.
One thing of which you can be certain: Whatever Berkshire’s results, my partner Charlie Munger, the
company’s Vice Chairman, and I will not change yardsticks. It’s our job to increase intrinsic business
value – for which we use book value as a significantly understated proxy – at a faster rate than the market
gains of the S&P. If we do so, Berkshire’s share price, though unpredictable from year to year, will itself
outpace the S&P over time. If we fail, however, our management will bring no value to our investors, who
themselves can earn S&P returns by buying a low-cost index fund.
Charlie and I believe the gain in Berkshire’s intrinsic value will over time likely surpass the S&P returns by
a small margin. We’re confident of that because we have some outstanding businesses, a cadre of terrific
operating managers and a shareholder-oriented culture. Our relative performance, however, is almost
certain to be better when the market is down or flat. In years when the market is particularly strong, expect
us to fall short.

Š

The second disappointment in 2012 was my inability to make a major acquisition. I pursued a couple of
elephants, but came up empty-handed.

* All per-share figures used in this report apply to Berkshire’s A shares. Figures for the B shares are
1/1500th of those shown for A.
3

Our luck, however, changed early this year. In February, we agreed to buy 50% of a holding company that
will own all of H. J. Heinz. The other half will be owned by a small group of investors led by Jorge Paulo
Lemann, a renowned Brazilian businessman and philanthropist.
We couldn’t be in better company. Jorge Paulo is a long-time friend of mine and an extraordinary
manager. His group and Berkshire will each contribute about $4 billion for common equity in the holding
company. Berkshire will also invest $8 billion in preferred shares that pay a 9% dividend. The preferred
has two other features that materially increase its value: at some point it will be redeemed at a significant
premium price and the preferred also comes with warrants permitting us to buy 5% of the holding
company’s common stock for a nominal sum.
Our total investment of about $12 billion soaks up much of what Berkshire earned last year. But we still
have plenty of cash and are generating more at a good clip. So it’s back to work; Charlie and I have again
donned our safari outfits and resumed our search for elephants.
Now to some good news from 2012:
Š

Last year I told you that BNSF, Iscar, Lubrizol, Marmon Group and MidAmerican Energy – our five most
profitable non-insurance companies – were likely to earn more than $10 billion pre-tax in 2012. They
delivered. Despite tepid U.S. growth and weakening economies throughout much of the world, our
“powerhouse five” had aggregate earnings of $10.1 billion, about $600 million more than in 2011.
Of this group, only MidAmerican, then earning $393 million pre-tax, was owned by Berkshire eight years
ago. Subsequently, we purchased another three of the five on an all-cash basis. In acquiring the fifth,
BNSF, we paid about 70% of the cost in cash, and for the remainder, issued shares that increased the
amount outstanding by 6.1%. Consequently, the $9.7 billion gain in annual earnings delivered Berkshire
by the five companies has been accompanied by only minor dilution. That satisfies our goal of not simply
growing, but rather increasing per-share results.
Unless the U.S. economy tanks – which we don’t expect – our powerhouse five should again deliver higher
earnings in 2013. The five outstanding CEOs who run them will see to that.

Š

Though I failed to land a major acquisition in 2012, the managers of our subsidiaries did far better. We had
a record year for “bolt-on” purchases, spending about $2.3 billion for 26 companies that were melded into
our existing businesses. These transactions were completed without Berkshire issuing any shares.
Charlie and I love these acquisitions: Usually they are low-risk, burden headquarters not at all, and expand
the scope of our proven managers.

Š

Our insurance operations shot the lights out last year. While giving Berkshire $73 billion of free money to
invest, they also delivered a $1.6 billion underwriting gain, the tenth consecutive year of profitable
underwriting. This is truly having your cake and eating it too.
GEICO led the way, continuing to gobble up market share without sacrificing underwriting discipline.
Since 1995, when we obtained control, GEICO’s share of the personal-auto market has grown from 2.5% to
9.7%. Premium volume meanwhile increased from $2.8 billion to $16.7 billion. Much more growth lies
ahead.
The credit for GEICO’s extraordinary performance goes to Tony Nicely and his 27,000 associates. And to
that cast, we should add our Gecko. Neither rain nor storm nor gloom of night can stop him; the little lizard
just soldiers on, telling Americans how they can save big money by going to GEICO.com.
When I count my blessings, I count GEICO twice.

4

Š

Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, our new investment managers, have proved to be smart, models of
integrity, helpful to Berkshire in many ways beyond portfolio management, and a perfect cultural fit. We
hit the jackpot with these two. In 2012 each outperformed the S&P 500 by double-digit margins. They left me in
the dust as well.
Consequently, we have increased the funds managed by each to almost $5 billion (some of this emanating
from the pension funds of our subsidiaries). Todd and Ted are young and will be around to manage
Berkshire’s massive portfolio long after Charlie and I have left the scene. You can rest easy when they
take over.

Š

Berkshire’s yearend employment totaled a record 288,462 (see page 106 for details), up 17,604 from last
year. Our headquarters crew, however, remained unchanged at 24. No sense going crazy.

Š

Berkshire’s “Big Four” investments – American Express, Coca-Cola, IBM and Wells Fargo – all had good
years. Our ownership interest in each of these companies increased during the year. We purchased
additional shares of Wells Fargo (our ownership now is 8.7% versus 7.6% at yearend 2011) and IBM (6.0%
versus 5.5%). Meanwhile, stock repurchases at Coca-Cola and American Express raised our percentage
ownership. Our equity in Coca-Cola grew from 8.8% to 8.9% and our interest at American Express from
13.0% to 13.7%.
Berkshire’s ownership interest in all four companies is likely to increase in the future. Mae West had it
right: “Too much of a good thing can be wonderful.”
The four companies possess marvelous businesses and are run by managers who are both talented and
shareholder-oriented. At Berkshire we much prefer owning a non-controlling but substantial portion of a
wonderful business to owning 100% of a so-so business. Our flexibility in capital allocation gives us a
significant advantage over companies that limit themselves only to acquisitions they can operate.
Going by our yearend share count, our portion of the “Big Four’s” 2012 earnings amounted to $3.9 billion.
In the earnings we report to you, however, we include only the dividends we receive – about $1.1 billion.
But make no mistake: The $2.8 billion of earnings we do not report is every bit as valuable to us as what