three of those formed in 1956. As time passed, the use of multiple entities became unwieldy and, in 1962, we
amalgamated 12 partnerships into a single unit, Buffett Partnership Ltd. (“BPL”).
By that year, virtually all of my own money, and that of my wife as well, had become invested alongside the
funds of my many limited partners. I received no salary or fees. Instead, as the general partner, I was compensated by
my limited partners only after they secured returns above an annual threshold of 6%. If returns failed to meet that
level, the shortfall was to be carried forward against my share of future profits. (Fortunately, that never happened:
Partnership returns always exceeded the 6% “bogey.”) As the years went by, a large part of the resources of my
parents, siblings, aunts, uncles, cousins and in-laws became invested in the partnership.

10

Charlie formed his partnership in 1962 and operated much as I did. Neither of us had any institutional
investors, and very few of our partners were financially sophisticated. The people who joined our ventures simply
trusted us to treat their money as we treated our own. These individuals – either intuitively or by relying on the advice
of friends – correctly concluded that Charlie and I had an extreme aversion to permanent loss of capital and that we
would not have accepted their money unless we expected to do reasonably well with it.
I stumbled into business management after BPL acquired control of Berkshire in 1965. Later still, in 1969,
we decided to dissolve BPL. After yearend, the partnership distributed, pro-rata, all of its cash along with three stocks,
the largest by value being BPL’s 70.5% interest in Berkshire.
Charlie, meanwhile, wound up his operation in 1977. Among the assets he distributed to partners was a major
interest in Blue Chip Stamps, a company his partnership, Berkshire and I jointly controlled. Blue Chip was also among
the three stocks my partnership had distributed upon its dissolution.
In 1983, Berkshire and Blue Chip merged, thereby expanding Berkshire’s base of registered shareholders
from 1,900 to 2,900. Charlie and I wanted everyone – old, new and prospective shareholders – to be on the same page.
Therefore, the 1983 annual report – up front – laid out Berkshire’s “major business principles.” The first
principle began: “Although our form is corporate, our attitude is partnership.” That defined our relationship in 1983;
it defines it today. Charlie and I – and our directors as well – believe this dictum will serve Berkshire well for many
decades to come.
************
Ownership of Berkshire now resides in five large “buckets,” one occupied by me as a “founder” of sorts.
That bucket is certain to empty as the shares I own are annually distributed to various philanthropies.
Two of the remaining four buckets are filled by institutional investors, each handling other people’s money.
That, however, is where the similarity between those buckets ends: Their investing procedures could not be more
different.
In one institutional bucket are index funds, a large and mushrooming segment of the investment world. These
funds simply mimic the index that they track. The favorite of index investors is the S&P 500, of which Berkshire is a
component. Index funds, it should be emphasized, own Berkshire shares simply because they are required to do so.
They are on automatic pilot, buying and selling only for “weighting” purposes.
In the other institutional bucket are professionals who manage their clients’ money, whether those funds
belong to wealthy individuals, universities, pensioners or whomever. These professional managers have a mandate to
move funds from one investment to another based on their judgment as to valuation and prospects. That is an
honorable, though difficult, occupation.
We are happy to work for this “active” group, while they meanwhile search for a better place to deploy the
funds of their clientele. Some managers, to be sure, have a long-term focus and trade very infrequently. Others use
computers employing algorithms that may direct the purchase or sale of shares in a nano-second. Some professional
investors will come and go based upon their macro-economic judgments.
Our fourth bucket consists of individual shareholders who operate in a manner similar to the active
institutional managers I’ve just described. These owners, understandably, think of their Berkshire shares as a possible
source of funds when they see another investment that excites them. We have no quarrel with that attitude, which is
similar to the way we look at some of the equities we own at Berkshire.

11

All of that said, Charlie and I would be less than human if we did not feel a special kinship with our fifth
bucket: the million-plus individual investors who simply trust us to represent their interests, whatever the future may
bring. They have joined us with no intent to leave, adopting a mindset similar to that held by our original partners.
Indeed, many investors from our partnership years, and/or their descendants, remain substantial owners of Berkshire.
A prototype of those veterans is Stan Truhlsen, a cheerful and generous Omaha ophthalmologist as well as
personal friend, who turned 100 on November 13, 2020. In 1959, Stan, along with 10 other young Omaha doctors,
formed a partnership with me. The docs creatively labeled their venture Emdee, Ltd. Annually, they joined my wife
and me for a celebratory dinner at our home.
When our partnership distributed its Berkshire shares in 1969, all of the doctors kept the stock they received.
They may not have known the ins and outs of investing or accounting, but they did know that at Berkshire they would
be treated as partners.
Two of Stan’s comrades from Emdee are now in their high-90s and continue to hold Berkshire shares. This
group’s startling durability – along with the fact that Charlie and I are 97 and 90, respectively – serves up an interesting
question: Could it be that Berkshire ownership fosters longevity?
************
Berkshire’s unusual and valued family of individual shareholders may add to your understanding of our
reluctance to court Wall Street analysts and institutional investors. We already have the investors we want and don’t
think that they, on balance, would be upgraded by replacements.
There are only so many seats – that is, shares outstanding – available for Berkshire ownership. And we very
much like the people already occupying them.
Of course, some turnover in “partners” will occur. Charlie and I hope, however, that it will be minimal. Who,
after all, seeks rapid turnover in friends, neighbors or marriage?
In 1958, Phil Fisher wrote a superb book on investing. In it, he analogized running a public company to
managing a restaurant. If you are seeking diners, he said, you can attract a clientele and prosper featuring either
hamburgers served with a Coke or a French cuisine accompanied by exotic wines. But you must not, Fisher warned,
capriciously switch from one to the other: Your message to potential customers must be consistent with what they will
find upon entering your premises.
At Berkshire, we have been serving hamburgers and Coke for 56 years. We cherish the clientele this fare has
attracted.
The tens of millions of other investors and speculators in the United States and elsewhere have a wide variety
of equity choices to fit their tastes. They will find CEOs and market gurus with enticing ideas. If they want price
targets, managed earnings and “stories,” they will not lack suitors. “Technicians” will confidently instruct them as to
what some wiggles on a chart portend for a stock’s next move. The calls for action will never stop.
Many of those investors, I should add, will do quite well. After all, ownership of stocks is very much a
“positive-sum” game. Indeed, a patient and level-headed monkey, who constructs a portfolio by throwing 50 darts at
a board listing all of the S&P 500, will – over time – enjoy dividends and capital gains, just as long as it never gets
tempted to make changes in its original “selections.”

12

Productive assets such as farms, real estate and, yes, business ownership produce wealth – lots of it. Most
owners of such properties will be rewarded. All that’s required is the passage of time, an inner calm, ample
diversification and a minimization of transactions and fees. Still, investors must never forget that their expenses are
Wall Street’s income. And, unlike my monkey, Wall Streeters do not work for peanuts.
When seats open up at Berkshire – and we hope they are few – we want them to be occupied by newcomers
who understand and desire what we offer. After decades of management, Charlie and I remain unable to promise
results. We can and do, however, pledge to treat you as partners.
And so, too, will our successors.
A Berkshire Number that May Surprise You
Recently, I learned a fact about our company that I had never suspected: Berkshire owns American-based
property, plant and equipment – the sort of assets that make up the “business infrastructure” of our country – with a