************
I’ve warned you in the past that you should not believe everything you read or hear about Berkshire 
even when it is published or broadcast by a prestigious news organization. Indeed, erroneous reports are
particularly dangerous when they are circulated by highly-respected members of the media, simply because most
readers and listeners know these outlets to be generally credible and therefore believe what they say.
An example is a glaring error about Berkshire’s activities that appeared in the December 29 issue of The
Wall Street Journal, a generally excellent paper that I have for all of my life found useful. On the front page (and
above the fold, as they say) The Journal published a news brief that said, in unequivocal terms, that we were buying
bonds of Conseco and Finova. This item directed the reader to the lead story of the Money and Investing section.
There, in the second paragraph of the story, The Journal reported, again without any qualification, that Berkshire
was buying Conseco and Finova bonds, adding that Berkshire had invested “several hundred million dollars” in
each. Only in the 18th paragraph of the story (which by that point had jumped to an inside page) did the paper hedge
a bit, saying that our Conseco purchases had been disclosed by “people familiar with the matter.”
Well, not that familiar. True, we had purchased bonds and bank debt of Finova  though the report was
wildly inaccurate as to the amount. But to this day neither Berkshire nor I have ever bought a share of stock or a
bond of Conseco.
Berkshire is normally covered by a Journal reporter in Chicago who is both accurate and conscientious. In
this case, however, the “scoop” was the product of a New York reporter for the paper. Indeed, the 29th was a busy
day for him: By early afternoon, he had repeated the story on CNBC. Immediately, in lemming-like manner, other
respected news organizations, relying solely on the Journal, began relating the same “facts.” The result: Conseco
stock advanced sharply during the day on exceptional volume that placed it ninth on the NYSE most-active list.
During all of the story’s iterations, I never heard or read the word “rumor.” Apparently reporters and
editors, who generally pride themselves on their careful use of language, just can’t bring themselves to attach this
word to their accounts. But what description would fit more precisely? Certainly not the usual “sources say” or “it
has been reported.”

18

A column entitled “Today’s Rumors,” however, would not equate with the self-image of the many news
organizations that think themselves above such stuff. These members of the media would feel that publishing such
acknowledged fluff would be akin to L’Osservatore Romano initiating a gossip column. But rumors are what these
organizations often publish and broadcast, whatever euphemism they duck behind. At a minimum, readers deserve
honest terminology  a warning label that will protect their financial health in the same way that smokers whose
physical health is at risk are given a warning.
The Constitution’s First Amendment allows the media to print or say almost anything. Journalism’s First
Principle should require that the media be scrupulous in deciding what that will be.
Miscellaneous
In last year’s report we examined the battle then raging over the use of “pooling” in accounting for
mergers. It seemed to us that both sides were voicing arguments that were strong in certain respects and seriously
flawed in others. We are pleased that the Financial Accounting Standards Board has since gone to an alternative
approach that strikes us as very sound.
If the proposed rule becomes final, we will no longer incur a large annual charge for amortization of
intangibles. Consequently, our reported earnings will more closely reflect economic reality. (See page 65.) None
of this will have an effect on Berkshire’s intrinsic value. Your Chairman, however, will personally benefit in that
there will be one less item to explain in these letters.
************
I’m enclosing a report  generously supplied by Outstanding Investor Digest  of Charlie’s remarks at
last May’s Wesco annual meeting. Charlie thinks about business economics and investment matters better than
anyone I know, and I’ve learned a lot over the years by listening to him. Reading his comments will improve your
understanding of Berkshire.
************
In 1985, we purchased Scott Fetzer, acquiring not only a fine business but the services of Ralph Schey, a
truly outstanding CEO, as well. Ralph was then 61. Most companies, focused on the calendar rather than ability,
would have benefited from Ralph’s talents for only a few years.
At Berkshire, in contrast, Ralph ran Scott Fetzer for 15 years until his retirement at the end of 2000. Under
his leadership, the company distributed $1.03 billion to Berkshire against our net purchase price of $230 million.
We used these funds, in turn, to purchase other businesses. All told, Ralph’s contributions to Berkshire’s present
value extend well into the billions of dollars.
As a manager, Ralph belongs in Berkshire’s Hall of Fame, and Charlie and I welcome him to it.
************
A bit of nostalgia: It was exactly 50 years ago that I entered Ben Graham’s class at Columbia. During the
decade before, I had enjoyed  make that loved  analyzing, buying and selling stocks. But my results were no
better than average.
Beginning in 1951 my performance improved. No, I hadn’t changed my diet or taken up exercise. The
only new ingredient was Ben’s ideas. Quite simply, a few hours spent at the feet of the master proved far more
valuable to me than had ten years of supposedly original thinking.
In addition to being a great teacher, Ben was a wonderful friend. My debt to him is incalculable.

19

Shareholder-Designated Contributions
About 97% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 2000 shareholder-designated contributions
program, with contributions totaling $16.9 million. A full description of the program appears on pages 74-75.
Cumulatively, over the 20 years of the program, Berkshire has made contributions of $164 million
pursuant to the instructions of our shareholders. The rest of Berkshire's giving is done by our subsidiaries, which
stick to the philanthropic patterns that prevailed before they were acquired (except that their former owners
themselves take on the responsibility for their personal charities). In aggregate, our subsidiaries made contributions
of $18.3 million in 2000, including in-kind donations of $3 million.
To participate in future programs, you must own Class A shares that are registered in the name of the
actual owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not so registered on August 31, 2001
will be ineligible for the 2001 program. When you get the contributions form from us, return it promptly so that it
does not get put aside or forgotten. Designations received after the due date will not be honored.
The Annual Meeting
Last year we moved the annual meeting to the Civic Auditorium, and it worked very well for us. We will
meet there again on Saturday, April 28. The doors will open at 7 a.m., the movie will begin at 8:30, and the meeting
itself will commence at 9:30. There will be a short break at noon for food, with sandwiches available at the Civic’s
concession stands. Except for that interlude, Charlie and I will answer questions until 3:30.
For the next couple of years, the Civic is our only choice. We must therefore hold the meeting on either
Saturday or Sunday to avoid the traffic and parking nightmare that would occur on a weekday. Shortly, however,
Omaha will have a new Convention Center with ample parking. Assuming that the Center is then available to us, I
will poll shareholders to see whether you wish to return to a Monday meeting. We will decide that vote based on
the wishes of a majority of shareholders, not shares.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to this year’s meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car
reservations, we have again signed up American Express (800-799-6634) to give you special help. In our normal
fashion, we will run buses from the larger hotels to the meeting. After the meeting, the buses will make trips back
to the hotels and to Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim’s and the airport. Even so, you are likely to find a car
useful.
We have added so many new companies to Berkshire this year that I’m not going to detail all of the
products that we will be selling at the meeting. But come prepared to carry home everything from bricks to candy.
One new product, however, deserves special note: Bob Shaw has designed a 3 x 5 rug featuring an excellent
likeness of Charlie. Obviously, it would be embarrassing for Charlie  make that humiliating  if slow sales
forced us to slash the rug’s price, so step up and do your part.
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of them