For many decades, General Re’s name has stood for quality, integrity and professionalism in reinsurance — and
under Ron Ferguson’s leadership, this reputation has been burnished still more. Berkshire can add absolutely nothing
to the skills of General Re’s and Cologne Re’s managers. On the contrary, there is a lot that they can teach us.
Nevertheless, we believe that Berkshire’s ownership will benefit General Re in important ways and that its earnings
a decade from now will materially exceed those that would have been attainable absent the merger. We base this
optimism on the fact that we can offer General Re’s management a freedom to operate in whatever manner will best allow
the company to exploit its strengths.
Let’s look for a moment at the reinsurance business to understand why General Re could not on its own do what
it can under Berkshire. Most of the demand for reinsurance comes from primary insurers who want to escape the wide
swings in earnings that result from large and unusual losses. In effect, a reinsurer gets paid for absorbing the volatility
that the client insurer wants to shed.
Ironically, though, a publicly-held reinsurer gets graded by both its owners and those who evaluate its credit on the
smoothness of its own results. Wide swings in earnings hurt both credit ratings and p/e ratios, even when the business
that produces such swings has an expectancy of satisfactory profits over time. This market reality sometimes causes a
reinsurer to make costly moves, among them laying off a significant portion of the business it writes (in transactions that
are called “retrocessions”) or rejecting good business simply because it threatens to bring on too much volatility.
Berkshire, in contrast, happily accepts volatility, just as long as it carries with it the expectation of increased profits
over time. Furthermore, we are a Fort Knox of capital, and that means volatile earnings can’t impair our premier credit
ratings. Thus we have the perfect structure for writing — and retaining — reinsurance in virtually any amount. In fact,
we’ve used this strength over the past decade to build a powerful super-cat business.
What General Re gives us, however, is the distribution force, technical facilities and management that will allow
us to employ our structural strength in every facet of the industry. In particular, General Re and Cologne Re can now
accelerate their push into international markets, where the preponderance of industry growth will almost certainly occur.
As the merger proxy statement spelled out, Berkshire also brings tax and investment benefits to General Re. But the most
compelling reason for the merger is simply that General Re’s outstanding management can now do what it does best,
unfettered by the constraints that have limited its growth.
Berkshire is assuming responsibility for General Re’s investment portfolio, though not for Cologne Re’s. We will
not, however, be involved in General Re’s underwriting. We will simply ask the company to exercise the discipline of
the past while increasing the proportion of its business that is retained, expanding its product line, and widening its
geographical coverage — making these moves in recognition of Berkshire’s financial strength and tolerance for wide
swings in earnings. As we’ve long said, we prefer a lumpy 15% return to a smooth 12%.
Over time, Ron and his team will maximize General Re’s new potential. He and I have known each other for
many years, and each of our companies has initiated significant business that it has reinsured with the other. Indeed,
General Re played a key role in the resuscitation of GEICO from its near-death status in 1976.
Both Ron and Rich Santulli plan to be at the annual meeting, and I hope you get a chance to say hello to them.

9

The Economics of Property-Casualty Insurance
With the acquisition of General Re — and with GEICO’s business mushrooming — it becomes more important than ever
that you understand how to evaluate an insurance company. The key determinants are: (1) the amount of float that the
business generates; (2) its cost; and (3) most important of all, the long-term outlook for both of these factors.
To begin with, float is money we hold but don't own. In an insurance operation, float arises because premiums are
received before losses are paid, an interval that sometimes extends over many years. During that time, the insurer invests
the money. Typically, this pleasant activity carries with it a downside: The premiums that an insurer takes in usually
do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually must pay. That leaves it running an "underwriting loss," which is the
cost of float. An insurance business has value if its cost of float over time is less than the cost the company would
otherwise incur to obtain funds. But the business is a lemon if its cost of float is higher than market rates for money.
A caution is appropriate here: Because loss costs must be estimated, insurers have enormous latitude in figuring
their underwriting results, and that makes it very difficult for investors to calculate a company's true cost of float. Errors
of estimation, usually innocent but sometimes not, can be huge. The consequences of these miscalculations flow directly
into earnings. An experienced observer can usually detect large-scale errors in reserving, but the general public can
typically do no more than accept what's presented, and at times I have been amazed by the numbers that big-name
auditors have implicitly blessed. As for Berkshire, Charlie and I attempt to be conservative in presenting its underwriting
results to you, because we have found that virtually all surprises in insurance are unpleasant ones.
The table that follows shows the float generated by Berkshire’s insurance operations since we entered the business
32 years ago. The data are for every fifth year and also the last, which includes General Re’s huge float. For the table
we have calculated our float — which we generate in large amounts relative to our premium volume — by adding net
loss reserves, loss adjustment reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and unearned premium reserves, and then
subtracting agents balances, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid taxes and deferred charges applicable to assumed
reinsurance. (Got that?)
Year

Average Float
(in $ millions)
17
70
139
221
1,267
2,290
7,093

1967
1972
1977
1982
1987
1992
1997
1998

22,762 (yearend)

Impressive as the growth in our float has been — 25.4% compounded annually — what really counts is the cost
of this item. If that becomes too high, growth in float becomes a curse rather than a blessing.
At Berkshire, the news is all good: Our average cost over the 32 years has been well under zero. In aggregate, we
have posted a substantial underwriting profit, which means that we have been paid for holding a large and growing
amount of money. This is the best of all worlds. Indeed, though our net float is recorded on our balance sheet as a
liability, it has had more economic value to us than an equal amount of net worth would have had. As long as we can
continue to achieve an underwriting profit, float will continue to outrank net worth in value.
During the next few years, Berkshire’s growth in float may well be modest. The reinsurance market is soft, and
in this business, relationships change slowly. Therefore, General Re’s float — 2/3rds of our total — is unlikely to
increase significantly in the near term. We do expect, however, that our cost of float will remain very attractive compared
to that of other insurers.

10

Sources of Reported Earnings
The table that follows shows the main sources of Berkshire's reported earnings. In this presentation, purchaseaccounting adjustments are not assigned to the specific businesses to which they apply, but are instead aggregated and
shown separately. This procedure lets you view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been reported had we
not purchased them. For the reasons discussed on pages 62 and 63, this form of presentation seems to us to be more
useful to investors and managers than one utilizing generally-accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which require
purchase-premiums to be charged off business-by-business. The total earnings we show in the table are, of course,
identical to the GAAP total in our audited financial statements.
(in millions)

Pre-Tax Earnings
1998
1997
Operating Earnings:
Insurance Group:
Underwriting — Super-Cat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Underwriting — Other Reinsurance . . . . . . . . . . .
Underwriting — GEICO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Underwriting — Other Primary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net Investment Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buffalo News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .