highest stock price possible (a premise with which we adamantly disagree). To pump the price, they strive,
admirably, for operational excellence. But when operations don’t produce the result hoped for, these CEOs resort
to unadmirable accounting stratagems. These either manufacture the desired “earnings” or set the stage for them
in the future.
Rationalizing this behavior, these managers often say that their shareholders will be hurt if their currency
for doing deals — that is, their stock — is not fully-priced, and they also argue that in using accounting
shenanigans to get the figures they want, they are only doing what everybody else does. Once such an
everybody’s-doing-it attitude takes hold, ethical misgivings vanish. Call this behavior Son of Gresham: Bad
accounting drives out good.
The distortion du jour is the “restructuring charge,” an accounting entry that can, of course, be legitimate
but that too often is a device for manipulating earnings. In this bit of legerdemain, a large chunk of costs that
should properly be attributed to a number of years is dumped into a single quarter, typically one already fated to
disappoint investors. In some cases, the purpose of the charge is to clean up earnings misrepresentations of the
past, and in others it is to prepare the ground for future misrepresentations. In either case, the size and timing
of these charges is dictated by the cynical proposition that Wall Street will not mind if earnings fall short by $5
per share in a given quarter, just as long as this deficiency ensures that quarterly earnings in the future will
consistently exceed expectations by five cents per share.
This dump-everything-into-one-quarter behavior suggests a corresponding “bold, imaginative” approach to
— golf scores. In his first round of the season, a golfer should ignore his actual performance and simply fill his
card with atrocious numbers — double, triple, quadruple bogeys — and then turn in a score of, say, 140. Having
established this “reserve,” he should go to the golf shop and tell his pro that he wishes to “restructure” his
imperfect swing. Next, as he takes his new swing onto the course, he should count his good holes, but not the
bad ones. These remnants from his old swing should be charged instead to the reserve established earlier. At
the end of five rounds, then, his record will be 140, 80, 80, 80, 80 rather than 91, 94, 89, 94, 92. On Wall
Street, they will ignore the 140 — which, after all, came from a “discontinued” swing — and will classify our
hero as an 80 shooter (and one who never disappoints).
For those who prefer to cheat up front, there would be a variant of this strategy. The golfer, playing alone
with a cooperative caddy-auditor, should defer the recording of bad holes, take four 80s, accept the plaudits he
gets for such athleticism and consistency, and then turn in a fifth card carrying a 140 score. After rectifying his
earlier scorekeeping sins with this “big bath,” he may mumble a few apologies but will refrain from returning
the sums he has previously collected from comparing scorecards in the clubhouse. (The caddy, need we add, will
have acquired a loyal patron.)
Unfortunately, CEOs who use variations of these scoring schemes in real life tend to become addicted to the
games they’re playing — after all, it’s easier to fiddle with the scorecard than to spend hours on the practice tee
— and never muster the will to give them up. Their behavior brings to mind Voltaire’s comment on sexual
experimentation: “Once a philosopher, twice a pervert.”
In the acquisition arena, restructuring has been raised to an art form: Managements now frequently use
mergers to dishonestly rearrange the value of assets and liabilities in ways that will allow them to both smooth
and swell future earnings. Indeed, at deal time, major auditing firms sometimes point out the possibilities for a
little accounting magic (or for a lot). Getting this push from the pulpit, first-class people will frequently stoop

15

to third-class tactics. CEOs understandably do not find it easy to reject auditor-blessed strategies that lead to
increased future “earnings.”
An example from the property-casualty insurance industry will illuminate the possibilities. When a p-c
company is acquired, the buyer sometimes simultaneously increases its loss reserves, often substantially. This boost
may merely reflect the previous inadequacy of reserves — though it is uncanny how often an actuarial “revelation”
of this kind coincides with the inking of a deal. In any case, the move sets up the possibility of ‘earnings”
flowing into income at some later date, as reserves are released.
Berkshire has kept entirely clear of these practices: If we are to disappoint you, we would rather it be with
our earnings than with our accounting. In all of our acquisitions, we have left the loss reserve figures exactly
as we found them. After all, we have consistently joined with insurance managers knowledgeable about their
business and honest in their financial reporting. When deals occur in which liabilities are increased immediately
and substantially, simple logic says that at least one of those virtues must have been lacking — or, alternatively,
that the acquirer is laying the groundwork for future infusions of “earnings.”
Here’s a true story that illustrates an all-too-common view in corporate America. The CEOs of two large
banks, one of them a man who’d made many acquisitions, were involved not long ago in a friendly merger
discussion (which in the end didn’t produce a deal). The veteran acquirer was expounding on the merits of the
possible combination, only to be skeptically interrupted by the other CEO: “But won’t that mean a huge charge,”
he asked, “perhaps as much as $1 billion?” The “sophisticate” wasted no words: “We’ll make it bigger than that
— that’s why we’re doing the deal.”
A preliminary tally by R. G. Associates, of Baltimore, of special charges taken or announced during 1998
— that is, charges for restructuring, in-process R&D, merger-related items, and write-downs — identified no less
than 1,369 of these, totaling $72.1 billion. That is a staggering amount as evidenced by this bit of perspective:
The 1997 earnings of the 500 companies in Fortune’s famous list totaled $324 billion.
Clearly the attitude of disrespect that many executives have today for accurate reporting is a business
disgrace. And auditors, as we have already suggested, have done little on the positive side. Though auditors
should regard the investing public as their client, they tend to kowtow instead to the managers who choose them
and dole out their pay. (“Whose bread I eat, his song I sing.”)
A big piece of news, however, is that the SEC, led by its chairman, Arthur Levitt, seems determined to get
corporate America to clean up its act. In a landmark speech last September, Levitt called for an end to “earnings
management.” He correctly observed, “Too many corporate managers, auditors and analysts are participants in
a game of nods and winks.” And then he laid on a real indictment: “Managing may be giving way to
manipulating; integrity may be losing out to illusion.”
I urge you to read the Chairman’s speech (you can find it on the Internet at www.sec.gov) and to support
him in his efforts to get corporate America to deliver a straight story to its owners. Levitt’s job will be
Herculean, but it is hard to think of another more important for him to take on.
Reports to Shareholders
Berkshire’s Internet site, www.berkshirehathaway.com, has become a prime source for information about the
company. While we continue to send an annual report to all shareholders, we now send quarterlies only to those
who request them, letting others read these at our site. In this report, we again enclose a card that can be
returned by those wanting to get printed quarterlies in 1999.
Charlie and I have two simple goals in reporting: 1) We want to give you the information that we would
wish you to give us if our positions were reversed; and 2) We want to make Berkshire’s information accessible
to all of you simultaneously. Our ability to reach that second goal is greatly helped by the Internet.
In another portion of his September speech, Arthur Levitt deplored what he called “selective disclosure.”
His remarks were timely: Today, many companies matter-of-factly favor Wall Street analysts and institutional

16

investors in a variety of ways that often skirt or cross the line of unfairness. These practices leave the great bulk
of shareholders at a distinct disadvantage to a favored class.
At Berkshire, we regard the holder of one share of B stock as the equal of our large institutional investors.
We, of course, warmly welcome institutions as owners and have gained a number of them through the General
Re merger. We hope also that these new holders find that our owner’s manual and annual reports offer them
more insights and information about Berkshire than they garner about other companies from the investor relations
departments that these corporations typically maintain. But if it is “earnings guidance” or the like that