managers of publicly-owned companies.
At Berkshire we feel that telling outstanding CEOs, such as Tony, how to run their companies would be the height
of foolishness. Most of our managers wouldn’t work for us if they got a lot of backseat driving. (Generally, they don’t
have to work for anyone, since 75% or so are independently wealthy.) Besides, they are the Mark McGwires of the
business world and need no advice from us as to how to hold the bat or when to swing.
Nevertheless, Berkshire’s ownership may make even the best of managers more effective. First, we eliminate all
of the ritualistic and nonproductive activities that normally go with the job of CEO. Our managers are totally in charge
of their personal schedules. Second, we give each a simple mission: Just run your business as if: 1) you own 100% of
it; 2) it is the only asset in the world that you and your family have or will ever have; and 3) you can’t sell or merge it
for at least a century. As a corollary, we tell them they should not let any of their decisions be affected even slightly by
accounting considerations. We want our managers to think about what counts, not how it will be counted.
Very few CEOs of public companies operate under a similar mandate, mainly because they have owners who focus
on short-term prospects and reported earnings. Berkshire, however, has a shareholder base — which it will have for
decades to come — that has the longest investment horizon to be found in the public-company universe. Indeed, a
majority of our shares are held by investors who expect to die still holding them. We can therefore ask our CEOs to
manage for maximum long-term value, rather than for next quarter’s earnings. We certainly don’t ignore the current
results of our businesses — in most cases, they are of great importance — but we never want them to be achieved at the
expense of our building ever-greater competitive strengths.
I believe the GEICO story demonstrates the benefits of Berkshire’s approach. Charlie and I haven’t taught Tony
a thing — and never will — but we have created an environment that allows him to apply all of his talents to what’s
important. He does not have to devote his time or energy to board meetings, press interviews, presentations by investment
bankers or talks with financial analysts. Furthermore, he need never spend a moment thinking about financing, credit
ratings or “Street” expectations for earnings per share. Because of our ownership structure, he also knows that this
operational framework will endure for decades to come. In this environment of freedom, both Tony and his company
can convert their almost limitless potential into matching achievements.
If you are running a large, profitable business that will thrive in a GEICO-like environment, check our acquisition
criteria on page 21 and give me a call. I promise a fast answer and will mention your inquiry to no one except
Charlie.
Executive Jet Aviation (1-800-848-6436)
To understand the huge potential at Executive Jet Aviation (EJA), you need some understanding of its business,
which is selling fractional shares of jets and operating the fleet for its many owners. Rich Santulli, CEO of EJA, created
the fractional ownership industry in 1986, by visualizing an important new way of using planes. Then he combined guts
and talent to turn his idea into a major business.
In a fractional ownership plan, you purchase a portion — say 1/8th — of any of a wide variety of jets that EJA
offers. That purchase entitles you to 100 hours of flying time annually. (“Dead-head” hours don’t count against your
allotment, and you are also allowed to average your hours over five years.) In addition, you pay both a monthly
management fee and a fee for hours actually flown.
Then, on a few hours notice, EJA makes your plane, or another at least as good, available to you at your choice of
the 5500 airports in the U.S. In effect, calling up your plane is like phoning for a taxi.

7

I first heard about the NetJets® program, as it is called, about four years ago from Frank Rooney, our manager at
H.H. Brown. Frank had used and been delighted with the service and suggested that I meet Rich to investigate signing
up for my family’s use. It took Rich about 15 minutes to sell me a quarter (200 hours annually) of a Hawker 1000. Since
then, my family has learned firsthand — through flying 900 hours on 300 trips — what a friendly, efficient, and safe
operation EJA runs. Quite simply, they love this service. In fact, they quickly grew so enthusiastic that I did a
testimonial ad for EJA long before I knew there was any possibility of our purchasing the business. I did, however, ask
Rich to give me a call if he ever got interested in selling. Luckily, he phoned me last May, and we quickly made a $725
million deal, paying equal amounts of cash and stock.
EJA, which is by far the largest operator in its industry, has more than 1,000 customers and 163 aircraft (including
23 “core” aircraft that are owned or leased by EJA itself, so that it can make sure that service is first-class even during
the times when demand is heaviest). Safety, of course, is the paramount issue in any flight operation, and Rich’s pilots
— now numbering about 650 — receive extensive training at least twice a year from FlightSafety International, another
Berkshire subsidiary and the world leader in pilot training. The bottom line on our pilots: I’ve sold the Berkshire plane
and will now do all of my business flying, as well as my personal flying, with NetJets’ crews.
Being the leader in this industry is a major advantage for all concerned. Our customers gain because we have an
armada of planes positioned throughout the country at all times, a blanketing that allows us to provide unmatched service.
Meanwhile, we gain from the blanketing because it reduces dead-head costs. Another compelling attraction for our
clients is that we offer products from Boeing, Gulfstream, Falcon, Cessna, and Raytheon, whereas our two competitors
are owned by manufacturers that offer only their own planes. In effect, NetJets is like a physician who can recommend
whatever medicine best fits the needs of each patient; our competitors, in contrast, are producers of a “house” brand that
they must prescribe for one and all.
In many cases our clients, both corporate and individual, own fractions of several different planes and can therefore
match specific planes to specific missions. For example, a client might own 1/16th of three different jets (each giving it
50 hours of flying time), which in total give it a virtual fleet, obtained for a small fraction of the cost of a single plane.
Significantly, it is not only small businesses that can benefit from fractional ownership. Already, some of America’s
largest companies use NetJets as a supplement to their own fleet. This saves them big money in both meeting peak
requirements and in flying missions that would require their wholly-owned planes to log a disproportionate amount of
dead-head hours.
When a plane is slated for personal use, the clinching argument is that either the client signs up now or his children
likely will later. That’s an equation I explained to my wonderful Aunt Alice 40 years ago when she asked me whether
she could afford a fur coat. My reply settled the issue: “Alice, you aren’t buying it; your heirs are.”
EJA’s growth has been explosive: In 1997, it accounted for 31% of all corporate jets ordered in the world.
Nonetheless, Rich and I believe that the potential of fractional ownership has barely been scratched. If many thousands
of owners find it sensible to own 100% of a plane — which must be used 350-400 hours annually if it’s to make
economic sense — there must be a large multiple of that number for whom fractional ownership works.
In addition to being a terrific executive, Rich is fun. Like most of our managers, he has no economic need
whatsoever to work. Rich spends his time at EJA because it’s his baby — and he wants to see how far he can take it.
We both already know the answer, both literally and figuratively: to the ends of the earth.
************
And now a small hint to Berkshire directors: Last year I spent more than nine times my salary at Borsheim’s and
EJA. Just think how Berkshire’s business would boom if you’d only spring for a raise.

8

General Re
On December 21, we completed our $22 billion acquisition of General Re Corp. In addition to owning 100% of
General Reinsurance Corporation, the largest U.S. property-casualty reinsurer, the company also owns (including stock
it has an arrangement to buy) 82% of the oldest reinsurance company in the world, Cologne Re. The two companies
together reinsure all lines of insurance and operate in 124 countries.