welcome further purchases by us. If we do this – and if we can buy dealerships at sensible prices – we will
build a business that before long will be multiples the size of Van Tuyl’s $9 billion of sales.
With the acquisition of Van Tuyl, Berkshire now owns 9 1⁄ 2 companies that would be listed on the Fortune
500 were they independent (Heinz is the 1⁄ 2). That leaves 490 1⁄ 2 fish in the sea. Our lines are out.

5

‹

Our subsidiaries spent a record $15 billion on plant and equipment during 2014, well over twice their
depreciation charges. About 90% of that money was spent in the United States. Though we will always
invest abroad as well, the mother lode of opportunities runs through America. The treasures that have been
uncovered up to now are dwarfed by those still untapped. Through dumb luck, Charlie and I were born in
the United States, and we are forever grateful for the staggering advantages this accident of birth has given
us.

‹

Berkshire’s yearend employees – including those at Heinz – totaled a record 340,499, up 9,754 from last
year. The increase, I am proud to say, included no gain at headquarters (where 25 people work). No sense
going crazy.

‹

Berkshire increased its ownership interest last year in each of its “Big Four” investments – American
Express, Coca-Cola, IBM and Wells Fargo. We purchased additional shares of IBM (increasing our
ownership to 7.8% versus 6.3% at yearend 2013). Meanwhile, stock repurchases at Coca-Cola, American
Express and Wells Fargo raised our percentage ownership of each. Our equity in Coca-Cola grew from
9.1% to 9.2%, our interest in American Express increased from 14.2% to 14.8% and our ownership of
Wells Fargo grew from 9.2% to 9.4%. And, if you think tenths of a percent aren’t important, ponder this
math: For the four companies in aggregate, each increase of one-tenth of a percent in our ownership raises
Berkshire’s portion of their annual earnings by $50 million.
These four investees possess excellent businesses and are run by managers who are both talented and
shareholder-oriented. At Berkshire, we much prefer owning a non-controlling but substantial portion of a
wonderful company to owning 100% of a so-so business. It’s better to have a partial interest in the Hope
Diamond than to own all of a rhinestone.
If Berkshire’s yearend holdings are used as the marker, our portion of the “Big Four’s” 2014 earnings
before discontinued operations amounted to $4.7 billion (compared to $3.3 billion only three years ago). In
the earnings we report to you, however, we include only the dividends we receive – about $1.6 billion last
year. (Again, three years ago the dividends were $862 million.) But make no mistake: The $3.1 billion of
these companies’ earnings we don’t report are every bit as valuable to us as the portion Berkshire records.
The earnings these investees retain are often used for repurchases of their own stock – a move that
enhances Berkshire’s share of future earnings without requiring us to lay out a dime. Their retained
earnings also fund business opportunities that usually turn out to be advantageous. All that leads us to
expect that the per-share earnings of these four investees, in aggregate, will grow substantially over time
(though 2015 will be a tough year for the group, in part because of the strong dollar). If the expected gains
materialize, dividends to Berkshire will increase and, even more important, so will our unrealized capital
gains. (For the package of four, our unrealized gains already totaled $42 billion at yearend.)
Our flexibility in capital allocation – our willingness to invest large sums passively in non-controlled
businesses – gives us a significant advantage over companies that limit themselves to acquisitions they can
operate. Our appetite for either operating businesses or passive investments doubles our chances of finding
sensible uses for Berkshire’s endless gusher of cash.

‹

I’ve mentioned in the past that my experience in business helps me as an investor and that my investment
experience has made me a better businessman. Each pursuit teaches lessons that are applicable to the other.
And some truths can only be fully learned through experience. (In Fred Schwed’s wonderful book, Where
Are the Customers’ Yachts?, a Peter Arno cartoon depicts a puzzled Adam looking at an eager Eve, while a
caption says, “There are certain things that cannot be adequately explained to a virgin either by words or
pictures.” If you haven’t read Schwed’s book, buy a copy at our annual meeting. Its wisdom and humor are
truly priceless.)

6

Among Arno’s “certain things,” I would include two separate skills, the evaluation of investments and the
management of businesses. I therefore think it’s worthwhile for Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, our two
investment managers, to each have oversight of at least one of our businesses. A sensible opportunity for
them to do so opened up a few months ago when we agreed to purchase two companies that, though
smaller than we would normally acquire, have excellent economic characteristics. Combined, the two earn
$100 million annually on about $125 million of net tangible assets.
I’ve asked Todd and Ted to each take on one as Chairman, in which role they will function in the very
limited way that I do with our larger subsidiaries. This arrangement will save me a minor amount of work
and, more important, make the two of them even better investors than they already are (which is to say
among the best).
************
Late in 2009, amidst the gloom of the Great Recession, we agreed to buy BNSF, the largest purchase in
Berkshire’s history. At the time, I called the transaction an “all-in wager on the economic future of the United
States.”
That kind of commitment was nothing new for us. We’ve been making similar wagers ever since Buffett
Partnership Ltd. acquired control of Berkshire in 1965. For good reason, too: Charlie and I have always considered a
“bet” on ever-rising U.S. prosperity to be very close to a sure thing.
Indeed, who has ever benefited during the past 238 years by betting against America? If you compare our
country’s present condition to that existing in 1776, you have to rub your eyes in wonder. In my lifetime alone, real
per-capita U.S. output has sextupled. My parents could not have dreamed in 1930 of the world their son would see.
Though the preachers of pessimism prattle endlessly about America’s problems, I’ve never seen one who wishes to
emigrate (though I can think of a few for whom I would happily buy a one-way ticket).
The dynamism embedded in our market economy will continue to work its magic. Gains won’t come in a
smooth or uninterrupted manner; they never have. And we will regularly grumble about our government. But, most
assuredly, America’s best days lie ahead.
With this tailwind working for us, Charlie and I hope to build Berkshire’s per-share intrinsic value by
(1) constantly improving the basic earning power of our many subsidiaries; (2) further increasing their earnings
through bolt-on acquisitions; (3) benefiting from the growth of our investees; (4) repurchasing Berkshire shares
when they are available at a meaningful discount from intrinsic value; and (5) making an occasional large
acquisition. We will also try to maximize results for you by rarely, if ever, issuing Berkshire shares.
Those building blocks rest on a rock-solid foundation. A century hence, BNSF and Berkshire Hathaway
Energy will still be playing vital roles in our economy. Homes and autos will remain central to the lives of most
families. Insurance will continue to be essential for both businesses and individuals. Looking ahead, Charlie and I
see a world made to order for Berkshire. We feel fortunate to be entrusted with its management.
Intrinsic Business Value
As much as Charlie and I talk about intrinsic business value, we cannot tell you precisely what that
number is for Berkshire shares (nor, in fact, for any other stock). In our 2010 annual report, however, we laid out the
three elements – one of them qualitative – that we believe are the keys to a sensible estimate of Berkshire’s intrinsic
value. That discussion is reproduced in full on pages 123-124.
Here is an update of the two quantitative factors: In 2014 our per-share investments increased 8.4% to
$140,123, and our earnings from businesses other than insurance and investments increased 19% to $10,847 per
share.

7

Since 1970, our per-share investments have increased at a rate of 19% compounded annually, and our
earnings figure has grown at a 20.6% clip. It is no coincidence that the price of Berkshire stock over the ensuing 44
years has increased at a rate very similar to that of our two measures of value. Charlie and I like to see gains in both
sectors, but our main focus is to build operating earnings. That’s why we were pleased to exchange our Phillips 66
and Graham Holdings stock for operating businesses last year and to contract with Procter and Gamble to acquire