pressured furniture and carpet manufacturers not to sell to her.  
But by various strategies she obtained merchandise and cut prices 
sharply.  Mrs. B was then hauled into court for violation of Fair 
Trade laws.  She not only won all the cases, but received 
invaluable publicity.  At the end of one case, after 
demonstrating to the court that she could profitably sell carpet 
at a huge discount from the prevailing price, she sold the judge 
$1400 worth of carpet.

     Today Nebraska Furniture Mart generates over $100 million of 
sales annually out of one 200,000 square-foot store.  No other 
home furnishings store in the country comes close to that volume.  
That single store also sells more furniture, carpets, and 
appliances than do all Omaha competitors combined.

     One question I always ask myself in appraising a business is 
how I would like, assuming I had ample capital and skilled 
personnel, to compete with it.  I’d rather wrestle grizzlies than 
compete with Mrs. B and her progeny.  They buy brilliantly, they 
operate at expense ratios competitors don’t even dream about, and 
they then pass on to their customers much of the savings.  It’s 
the ideal business - one built upon exceptional value to the 
customer that in turn translates into exceptional economics for 
its owners.

     Mrs. B is wise as well as smart and, for far-sighted family 
reasons, was willing to sell the business last year.  I had 
admired both the family and the business for decades, and a deal 
was quickly made.  But Mrs. B, now 90, is not one to go home and 
risk, as she puts it, “losing her marbles”.  She remains Chairman 
and is on the sales floor seven days a week.  Carpet sales are 
her specialty.  She personally sells quantities that would be a 
good departmental total for other carpet retailers.

     We purchased 90% of the business - leaving 10% with members 
of the family who are involved in management - and have optioned 
10% to certain key young family managers.

     And what managers they are.  Geneticists should do 
handsprings over the Blumkin family.  Louie Blumkin, Mrs.  B’s 
son, has been President of Nebraska Furniture Mart for many years 
and is widely regarded as the shrewdest buyer of furniture and 
appliances in the country.  Louie says he had the best teacher, 
and Mrs. B says she had the best student.  They’re both right.  
Louie and his three sons all have the Blumkin business ability, 
work ethic, and, most important, character.  On top of that, they 
are really nice people.  We are delighted to be in partnership 
with them.
Corporate Performance
During 1983 our book value increased from $737.43 per share 
to $975.83 per share, or by 32%.  We never take the one-year 
figure very seriously.  After all, why should the time required 
for a planet to circle the sun synchronize precisely with the 
time required for business actions to pay off?  Instead, we 
recommend not less than a five-year test as a rough yardstick of 
economic performance.  Red lights should start flashing if the 
five-year average annual gain falls much below the return on 
equity earned over the period by American industry in aggregate. 
(Watch out for our explanation if that occurs as Goethe observed, 
“When ideas fail, words come in very handy.”)

     During the 19-year tenure of present management, book value 
has grown from $19.46 per share to $975.83, or 22.6% compounded 
annually.  Considering our present size, nothing close to this 
rate of return can be sustained.  Those who believe otherwise 
should pursue a career in sales, but avoid one in mathematics.

     We report our progress in terms of book value because in our 
case (though not, by any means, in all cases) it is a 
conservative but reasonably adequate proxy for growth in 
intrinsic business value -
the measurement that really counts.
Book value’s virtue as a score-keeping measure is that it is easy 
to calculate and doesn’t involve the subjective (but important) 
judgments employed in calculation of intrinsic business value.  
It is important to understand, however, that the two terms - book 
value and intrinsic business value - have very different 
meanings.

     Book value is an accounting concept, recording the 
accumulated financial input from both contributed capital and 
retained earnings.  Intrinsic business value is an economic 
concept, estimating future cash output discounted to present 
value.  Book value tells you what has been put in; intrinsic 
business value estimates what can be taken out.

     An analogy will suggest the difference.  Assume you spend 
identical amounts putting each of two children through college.  
The book value (measured by financial input) of each child’s 
education would be the same.  But the present value of the future 
payoff (the intrinsic business value) might vary enormously - 
from zero to many times the cost of the education.  So, also, do 
businesses having equal financial input end up with wide 
variations in value.

     At Berkshire, at the beginning of fiscal 1965 when the 
present management took over, the $19.46 per share book value 
considerably overstated intrinsic business value.  All of that 
book value consisted of textile assets that could not earn, on 
average, anything close to an appropriate rate of return.  In the 
terms of our analogy, the investment in textile assets resembled 
investment in a largely-wasted education.

     Now, however, our intrinsic business value considerably 
exceeds book value.  There are two major reasons:

     (1) Standard accounting principles require that common 
         stocks held by our insurance subsidiaries be stated on 
         our books at market value, but that other stocks we own 
         be carried at the lower of aggregate cost or market.  
         At the end of 1983, the market value of this latter 
         group exceeded carrying value by $70 million pre-tax, 
         or about $50 million after tax.  This excess belongs in 
         our intrinsic business value, but is not included in 
         the calculation of book value;

     (2) More important, we own several businesses that possess 
         economic Goodwill (which is properly includable in 
         intrinsic business value) far larger than the 
         accounting Goodwill that is carried on our balance 
         sheet and reflected in book value.

     Goodwill, both economic and accounting, is an arcane subject 
and requires more explanation than is appropriate here.  The 
appendix that follows this letter - “Goodwill and its 
Amortization: The Rules and The Realities” - explains why 
economic and accounting Goodwill can, and usually do, differ 
enormously.

     You can live a full and rewarding life without ever thinking 
about Goodwill and its amortization.  But students of investment 
and management should understand the nuances of the subject.  My 
own thinking has changed drastically from 35 years ago when I was 
taught to favor tangible assets and to shun businesses whose 
value depended largely upon economic Goodwill.  This bias caused 
me to make many important business mistakes of omission, although 
relatively few of commission.

     Keynes identified my problem: “The difficulty lies not in 
the new ideas but in escaping from the old ones.” My escape was 
long delayed, in part because most of what I had been taught by 
the same teacher had been (and continues to be) so 
extraordinarily valuable.  Ultimately, business experience, 
direct and vicarious, produced my present strong preference for 
businesses that possess large amounts of enduring Goodwill and 
that utilize a minimum of tangible assets.

     I recommend the Appendix to those who are comfortable with 
accounting terminology and who have an interest in understanding 
the business aspects of Goodwill.  Whether or not you wish to 
tackle the Appendix, you should be aware that Charlie and I 
believe that Berkshire possesses very significant economic 
Goodwill value above that reflected in our book value.
Sources of Reported Earnings
The table below shows the sources of Berkshire’s reported 
earnings.  In 1982, Berkshire owned about 60% of Blue Chip Stamps 
whereas, in 1983, our ownership was 60% throughout the first six 
months and 100% thereafter.  In turn, Berkshire’s net interest in 
Wesco was 48% during 1982 and the first six months of 1983, and 
80% for the balance of 1983.  Because of these changed ownership 
percentages, the first two columns of the table provide the best 
measure of underlying business performance.

     All of the significant gains and losses attributable to 
unusual sales of assets by any of the business entities are 
aggregated with securities transactions on the line near the 
bottom of the table, and are not included in operating earnings. 
(We regard any annual figure for realized capital gains or losses 
as meaningless, but we regard the aggregate realized and 
unrealized capital gains over a period of years as very 
important.) Furthermore, amortization of Goodwill is not charged 
against the specific businesses but, for reasons outlined in the 
Appendix, is set forth as a separate item.
Net Earnings
                                   Earnings Before Income Taxes            After Tax
                              --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                    Total          Berkshire Share     Berkshire Share
                              ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
                                1983      1982      1983      1982      1983      1982
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
                                                    (000s omitted)
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............ $(33,872) $(21,558) $(33,872) $(21,558) $(18,400) $(11,345)
    Net Investment Income ...   43,810    41,620    43,810    41,620    39,114    35,270
  Berkshire-Waumbec Textiles      (100)   (1,545)     (100)   (1,545)      (63)     (862)