expensing options. Predictably, the major auditing firms and an army of CEOs stormed Washington to
pressure the Senate – what better institution to decide accounting questions? – into castrating the FASB. The
voices of the protesters were amplified by their large political contributions, usually made with corporate
money belonging to the very owners about to be bamboozled. It was not a sight for a civics class.
To its shame, the Senate voted 88-9 against expensing. Several prominent Senators even called for
the demise of the FASB if it didn’t abandon its position. (So much for independence.) Arthur Levitt, Jr., then
Chairman of the SEC – and generally a vigilant champion of shareholders – has since described his reluctant

20

bowing to Congressional and corporate pressures as the act of his chairmanship that he most regrets. (The
details of this sordid affair are related in Levitt’s excellent book, Take on the Street.)
With the Senate in its pocket and the SEC outgunned, corporate America knew that it was now boss
when it came to accounting. With that, a new era of anything-goes earnings reports – blessed and, in some
cases, encouraged by big-name auditors – was launched. The licentious behavior that followed quickly
became an air pump for The Great Bubble.
After being threatened by the Senate, FASB backed off its original position and adopted an “honor
system” approach, declaring expensing to be preferable but also allowing companies to ignore the cost if they
wished. The disheartening result: Of the 500 companies in the S&P, 498 adopted the method deemed less
desirable, which of course let them report higher “earnings.” Compensation-hungry CEOs loved this
outcome: Let FASB have the honor; they had the system.
In our 1992 annual report, discussing the unseemly and self-serving behavior of so many CEOs, I
said “the business elite risks losing its credibility on issues of significance to society – about which it may
have much of value to say – when it advocates the incredible on issues of significance to itself.”
That loss of credibility has occurred. The job of CEOs is now to regain America’s trust – and for the
country’s sake it’s important that they do so. They will not succeed in this endeavor, however, by way of
fatuous ads, meaningless policy statements, or structural changes of boards and committees. Instead, CEOs
must embrace stewardship as a way of life and treat their owners as partners, not patsies. It’s time for CEOs
to walk the walk.
************
Three suggestions for investors: First, beware of companies displaying weak accounting. If a
company still does not expense options, or if its pension assumptions are fanciful, watch out. When
managements take the low road in aspects that are visible, it is likely they are following a similar path behind
the scenes. There is seldom just one cockroach in the kitchen.
Trumpeting EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) is a particularly
pernicious practice. Doing so implies that depreciation is not truly an expense, given that it is a “non-cash”
charge. That’s nonsense. In truth, depreciation is a particularly unattractive expense because the cash outlay
it represents is paid up front, before the asset acquired has delivered any benefits to the business. Imagine, if
you will, that at the beginning of this year a company paid all of its employees for the next ten years of their
service (in the way they would lay out cash for a fixed asset to be useful for ten years). In the following nine
years, compensation would be a “non-cash” expense – a reduction of a prepaid compensation asset
established this year. Would anyone care to argue that the recording of the expense in years two through ten
would be simply a bookkeeping formality?
Second, unintelligible footnotes usually indicate untrustworthy management. If you can’t
understand a footnote or other managerial explanation, it’s usually because the CEO doesn’t want you to.
Enron’s descriptions of certain transactions still baffle me.
Finally, be suspicious of companies that trumpet earnings projections and growth expectations.
Businesses seldom operate in a tranquil, no-surprise environment, and earnings simply don’t advance
smoothly (except, of course, in the offering books of investment bankers).
Charlie and I not only don’t know today what our businesses will earn next year – we don’t even
know what they will earn next quarter. We are suspicious of those CEOs who regularly claim they do know
the future – and we become downright incredulous if they consistently reach their declared targets. Managers
that always promise to “make the numbers” will at some point be tempted to make up the numbers.
Shareholder-Designated Contributions
About 97.3% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 2002 shareholder-designated
contributions program, with contributions totaling $16.5 million.
Cumulatively, over the 22 years of the program, Berkshire has made contributions of $197 million
pursuant to the instructions of our shareholders. The rest of Berkshire's giving is done by our subsidiaries,
which stick to the philanthropic patterns that prevailed before they were acquired (except that their former

21

owners themselves take on the responsibility for their personal charities). In aggregate, our subsidiaries made
contributions of $24 million in 2002, including in-kind donations of $4 million.
To participate in future programs, you must own Class A shares that are registered in the name of
the actual owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not so registered on August
31, 2003 will be ineligible for the 2003 program. When you get the contributions form from us, return it
promptly so that it does not get put aside or forgotten. Designations received after the due date will not be
honored.
The Annual Meeting
This year’s annual meeting will be held on Saturday, May 3, and once again we will be at the Civic
Auditorium. The doors will open at 7 a.m., the movie will begin at 8:30, and the meeting itself will
commence at 9:30. There will be a short break at noon for food. (Sandwiches will be available at the Civic’s
concession stands.) That interlude aside, Charlie and I will answer questions until 3:30. Give us your best
shot.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car
reservations, we have again signed up American Express (800-799-6634) to give you special help. They do a
terrific job for us each year, and I thank them for it.
In our usual fashion, we will run vans from the larger hotels to the meeting. Afterwards, the vans
will make trips back to the hotels and to Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim’s and the airport. Even so, you
are likely to find a car useful.
Our exhibit area for Berkshire goods and services will be bigger and better than ever this year. So be
prepared to spend. I think you will particularly enjoy visiting The Pampered Chef display, where you may
run into Doris and Sheila.
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 41 of the 49 jurisdictions in
which we operate. Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you
money.
On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets® available
for your inspection. Just ask a representative at the Civic about viewing any of these planes. If you buy what
we consider an appropriate number of items during the weekend, you may well need your own plane to take
them home. Furthermore, if you buy a fraction of a plane, I’ll personally see that you get a three-pack of
briefs from Fruit of the Loom.
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we
will again be having “Berkshire Weekend” pricing, which means we will be offering our shareholders a
discount that is customarily given only to employees. We initiated this special pricing at NFM six years ago,
and sales during the “Weekend” grew from $5.3 million in 1997 to $14.2 million in 2002.
To get the discount, you must make your purchases during the Thursday, May 1 through Monday,
May 5 period and also present your meeting credential. The period’s special pricing will even apply to the
products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but that,
in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their cooperation.
NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on weekdays and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Sundays. On Saturday this year,
from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m., we are having a special affair for shareholders only. I’ll be there, eating hot dogs and