won’t bounce around a bit; they are certain to.  But we believe 
it highly unlikely that the combined ratio during the balance of 
the decade will average significantly below the 1981-1983 level.  
Based on our expectations regarding inflation -
and we are as 
pessimistic as ever on that front
- industry premium volume must 
grow about 10% annually merely to stabilize loss ratios at 
present levels.

     Our own combined ratio in 1983 was 121.  Since Mike Goldberg 
recently took over most of the responsibility for the insurance 
operation, it would be nice for me if our shortcomings could be 
placed at his doorstep rather than mine.  But unfortunately, as 
we have often pointed out, the insurance business has a long 
lead-time.  Though business policies may be changed and personnel 
improved, a significant period must pass before the effects are 
seen.  (This characteristic of the business enabled us to make a 
great deal of money in GEICO; we could picture what was likely to 
happen well before it actually occurred.) So the roots of the 
1983 results are operating and personnel decisions made two or 
more years back when I had direct managerial responsibility for 
the insurance group.

     Despite our poor results overall, several of our managers 
did truly outstanding jobs.  Roland Miller guided the auto and 
general liability business of National Indemnity Company and 
National Fire and Marine Insurance Company to improved results, 
while those of competitors deteriorated.  In addition, Tom Rowley 
at Continental Divide Insurance - our fledgling Colorado 
homestate company - seems certain to be a winner.  Mike found him 
a little over a year ago, and he was an important acquisition.

     We have become active recently - and hope to become much 
more active - in reinsurance transactions where the buyer’s 
overriding concern should be the seller’s long-term 
creditworthiness.  In such transactions our premier financial 
strength should make us the number one choice of both claimants 
and insurers who must rely on the reinsurer’s promises for a 
great many years to come.

     A major source of such business is structured settlements - 
a procedure for settling losses under which claimants receive 
periodic payments (almost always monthly, for life) rather than a 
single lump sum settlement.  This form of settlement has 
important tax advantages for the claimant and also prevents his 
squandering a large lump-sum payment.  Frequently, some inflation 
protection is built into the settlement.  Usually the claimant 
has been seriously injured, and thus the periodic payments must 
be unquestionably secure for decades to come.  We believe we 
offer unparalleled security.  No other insurer we know of - even 
those with much larger gross assets - has our financial strength.

     We also think our financial strength should recommend us to 
companies wishing to transfer loss reserves.  In such 
transactions, other insurance companies pay us lump sums to 
assume all (or a specified portion of) future loss payments 
applicable to large blocks of expired business.  Here also, the 
company transferring such claims needs to be certain of the 
transferee’s financial strength for many years to come.  Again, 
most of our competitors soliciting such business appear to us to 
have a financial condition that is materially inferior to ours.

     Potentially, structured settlements and the assumption of 
loss reserves could become very significant to us.  Because of 
their potential size and because these operations generate large 
amounts of investment income compared to premium volume, we will 
show underwriting results from those businesses on a separate 
line in our insurance segment data.  We also will exclude their 
effect in reporting our combined ratio to you.  We “front end” no 
profit on structured settlement or loss reserve transactions, and 
all attributable overhead is expensed currently.  Both businesses 
are run by Don Wurster at National Indemnity Company.
Insurance - GEICO
Geico’s performance during 1983 was as good as our own 
insurance performance was poor.  Compared to the industry’s 
combined ratio of 111, GEICO wrote at 96
after
a large voluntary 
accrual for policyholder dividends.  A few years ago I would not 
have thought GEICO could so greatly outperform the industry.  Its 
superiority reflects the combination of a truly exceptional 
business idea and an exceptional management.

     Jack Byrne and Bill Snyder have maintained extraordinary 
discipline in the underwriting area (including, crucially, 
provision for full and proper loss reserves), and their efforts 
are now being further rewarded by significant gains in new 
business.  Equally important, Lou Simpson is the class of the 
field among insurance investment managers.  The three of them are 
some team.

     We have approximately a one-third interest in GEICO.  That 
gives us a $270 million share in the company’s premium volume, an 
amount some 80% larger than our own volume.  Thus, the major 
portion of our total insurance business comes from the best 
insurance book in the country.  This fact does not moderate by an 
iota the need for us to improve our own operation.
Stock Splits and Stock Activity
We often are asked why Berkshire does not split its stock.  
The assumption behind this question usually appears to be that a 
split would be a pro-shareholder action.  We disagree.  Let me 
tell you why.

     One of our goals is to have Berkshire Hathaway stock sell at 
a price rationally related to its intrinsic business value.  (But 
note “rationally related”, not “identical”: if well-regarded 
companies are generally selling in the market at large discounts 
from value, Berkshire might well be priced similarly.) The key to 
a rational stock price is rational shareholders, both current and 
prospective.

     If the holders of a company’s stock and/or the prospective 
buyers attracted to it are prone to make irrational or emotion-
based decisions, some pretty silly stock prices are going to 
appear periodically.  Manic-depressive personalities produce 
manic-depressive valuations.  Such aberrations may help us in 
buying and selling the stocks of other companies.  But we think 
it is in both your interest and ours to minimize their occurrence 
in the market for Berkshire.

     To obtain only high quality shareholders is no cinch.  Mrs. 
Astor could select her 400, but anyone can buy any stock.  
Entering members of a shareholder “club” cannot be screened for 
intellectual capacity, emotional stability, moral sensitivity or 
acceptable dress.  Shareholder eugenics, therefore, might appear 
to be a hopeless undertaking.

     In large part, however, we feel that high quality ownership 
can be attracted and maintained if we consistently communicate 
our business and ownership philosophy -
along with no other 
conflicting messages
- and then let self selection follow its 
course.  For example, self selection will draw a far different 
crowd to a musical event advertised as an opera than one 
advertised as a rock concert even though anyone can buy a ticket 
to either.

     Through our policies and communications - our 
“advertisements” - we try to attract investors who will 
understand our operations, attitudes and expectations. (And, 
fully as important, we try to dissuade those who won’t.) We want 
those who think of themselves as business owners and invest in 
companies with the intention of staying a long time.  And, we 
want those who keep their eyes focused on business results, not 
market prices.

     Investors possessing those characteristics are in a small 
minority, but we have an exceptional collection of them.  I 
believe well over 90% - probably over 95% - of our shares are 
held by those who were shareholders of Berkshire or Blue Chip 
five years ago.  And I would guess that over 95% of our shares 
are held by investors for whom the holding is at least double the 
size of their next largest.  Among companies with at least 
several thousand public shareholders and more than $1 billion of 
market value, we are almost certainly the leader in the degree to 
which our shareholders think and act like owners.  Upgrading a 
shareholder group that possesses these characteristics is not 
easy.

     Were we to split the stock or take other actions focusing on 
stock price rather than business value, we would attract an 
entering class of buyers inferior to the exiting class of 
sellers.  At $1300, there are very few investors who can’t afford 
a Berkshire share.  Would a potential one-share purchaser be 
better off if we split 100 for 1 so he could buy 100 shares?  
Those who think so and who would buy the stock because of the 
split or in anticipation of one would definitely downgrade the 
quality of our present shareholder group. (Could we really 
improve our shareholder group by trading some of our present 
clear-thinking members for impressionable new ones who, 
preferring paper to value, feel wealthier with nine $10 bills 
than with one $100 bill?) People who buy for non-value reasons 
are likely to sell for non-value reasons.  Their presence in the 
picture will accentuate erratic price swings unrelated to 
underlying business developments.

     We will try to avoid policies that attract buyers with a 
short-term focus on our stock price and try to follow policies 
that attract informed long-term investors focusing on business 
values. just as you purchased your Berkshire shares in a market 
populated by rational informed investors, you deserve a chance to 