GAAP valuation exceeding the amount owned by any other U.S. company. Berkshire’s depreciated cost of these
domestic “fixed assets” is $154 billion. Next in line on this list is AT&T, with property, plant and equipment of $127
billion.
Our leadership in fixed-asset ownership, I should add, does not, in itself, signal an investment triumph. The
best results occur at companies that require minimal assets to conduct high-margin businesses – and offer goods or
services that will expand their sales volume with only minor needs for additional capital. We, in fact, own a few of
these exceptional businesses, but they are relatively small and, at best, grow slowly.
Asset-heavy companies, however, can be good investments. Indeed, we are delighted with our two
giants – BNSF and BHE: In 2011, Berkshire’s first full year of BNSF ownership, the two companies had combined
earnings of $4.2 billion. In 2020, a tough year for many businesses, the pair earned $8.3 billion.
BNSF and BHE will require major capital expenditures for decades to come. The good news is that both are
likely to deliver appropriate returns on the incremental investment.
Let’s look first at BNSF. Your railroad carries about 15% of all non-local ton-miles (a ton of freight moved
one mile) of goods that move in the United States, whether by rail, truck, pipeline, barge or aircraft. By a significant
margin, BNSF’s loads top those of any other carrier.
The history of American railroads is fascinating. After 150 years or so of frenzied construction, skullduggery,
overbuilding, bankruptcies, reorganizations and mergers, the railroad industry finally emerged a few decades ago as
mature and rationalized.
BNSF began operations in 1850 with a 12-mile line in northeastern Illinois. Today, it has 390 antecedents
whose railroads have been purchased or merged. The company’s extensive lineage is laid out at
http://www.bnsf.com/bnsf-resources/pdf/about-bnsf/History_and_Legacy.pdf.
Berkshire acquired BNSF early in 2010. Since our purchase, the railroad has invested $41 billion in fixed
assets, an outlay $20 billion in excess of its depreciation charges. Railroading is an outdoor sport, featuring mile-long
trains obliged to reliably operate in both extreme cold and heat, as they all the while encounter every form of terrain
from deserts to mountains. Massive flooding periodically occurs. BNSF owns 23,000 miles of track, spread throughout
28 states, and must spend whatever it takes to maximize safety and service throughout its vast system.

13

Nevertheless, BNSF has paid substantial dividends to Berkshire – $41.8 billion in total. The railroad pays us,
however, only what remains after it both fulfills the needs of its business and maintains a cash balance of about
$2 billion. This conservative policy allows BNSF to borrow at low rates, independent of any guarantee of its debt by
Berkshire.
One further word about BNSF: Last year, Carl Ice, its CEO, and his number two, Katie Farmer, did an
extraordinary job in controlling expenses while navigating a significant downturn in business. Despite a 7% decline
in the volume of goods carried, the two actually increased BNSF’s profit margin by 2.9 percentage points. Carl, as
long planned, retired at yearend and Katie took over as CEO. Your railroad is in good hands.
BHE, unlike BNSF, pays no dividends on its common stock, a highly-unusual practice in the electric-utility
industry. That Spartan policy has been the case throughout our 21 years of ownership. Unlike railroads, our country’s
electric utilities need a massive makeover in which the ultimate costs will be staggering. The effort will absorb all of
BHE’s earnings for decades to come. We welcome the challenge and believe the added investment will be
appropriately rewarded.
Let me tell you about one of BHE’s endeavors – its $18 billion commitment to rework and expand a
substantial portion of the outdated grid that now transmits electricity throughout the West. BHE began this project in
2006 and expects it to be completed by 2030 – yes, 2030.
The advent of renewable energy made our project a societal necessity. Historically, the coal-based generation
of electricity that long prevailed was located close to huge centers of population. The best sites for the new world of
wind and solar generation, however, are often in remote areas. When BHE assessed the situation in 2006, it was no
secret that a huge investment in western transmission lines had to be made. Very few companies or governmental
entities, however, were in a financial position to raise their hand after they tallied the project’s cost.
BHE’s decision to proceed, it should be noted, was based upon its trust in America’s political, economic and
judicial systems. Billions of dollars needed to be invested before meaningful revenue would flow. Transmission lines
had to cross the borders of states and other jurisdictions, each with its own rules and constituencies. BHE would also
need to deal with hundreds of landowners and execute complicated contracts with both the suppliers that generated
renewable power and the far-away utilities that would distribute the electricity to their customers. Competing interests
and defenders of the old order, along with unrealistic visionaries desiring an instantly-new world, had to be brought on
board.
Both surprises and delays were certain. Equally certain, however, was the fact that BHE had the managerial
talent, the institutional commitment and the financial wherewithal to fulfill its promises. Though it will be many years
before our western transmission project is completed, we are today searching for other projects of similar size to take
on.
Whatever the obstacles, BHE will be a leader in delivering ever-cleaner energy.
The Annual Meeting
Last year, on February 22nd, I wrote you about our plans for a gala annual meeting. Within a month, the
schedule was junked.
Our home office group, led by Melissa Shapiro and Marc Hamburg, Berkshire’s CFO, quickly regrouped.
Miraculously, their improvisations worked. Greg Abel, one of Berkshire’s Vice Chairmen, joined me on stage facing
a dark arena, 18,000 empty seats and a camera. There was no rehearsal: Greg and I arrived about 45 minutes before
“showtime.”

14

Debbie Bosanek, my incredible assistant who joined Berkshire 47 years ago at age 17, had put together about
25 slides displaying various facts and figures that I had assembled at home. An anonymous but highly-capable team
of computer and camera operators projected the slides onto the screen in proper order.
Yahoo streamed the proceedings to a record-sized international audience. Becky Quick of CNBC, operating
from her home in New Jersey, selected questions from thousands that shareholders had earlier submitted or that
viewers had emailed to her during the four hours Greg and I were on stage. See’s peanut brittle and fudge, along with
Coca-Cola, provided us with nourishment.
This year, on May 1st, we are planning to go one better. Again, we will rely on Yahoo and CNBC to perform
flawlessly. Yahoo will go live at 1 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (“EDT”). Simply navigate to
https://finance.yahoo.com/brklivestream.
Our formal meeting will commence at 5:00 p.m. EDT and should finish by 5:30 p.m. Earlier, between
1:30-5:00, we will answer your questions as relayed by Becky. As always, we will have no foreknowledge as to what
questions will be asked. Send your zingers to BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com. Yahoo will wrap things up after 5:30.
And now – drum roll, please – a surprise. This year our meeting will be held in Los Angeles . . . and Charlie
will be on stage with me offering answers and observations throughout the 3 1⁄ 2-hour question period. I missed him last
year and, more important, you clearly missed him. Our other invaluable vice-chairmen, Ajit Jain and Greg Abel, will
be with us to answer questions relating to their domains.
Join us via Yahoo. Direct your really tough questions to Charlie! We will have fun, and we hope you will as
well.
Better yet, of course, will be the day when we see you face to face. I hope and expect that will be in 2022.
The citizens of Omaha, our exhibiting subsidiaries and all of us at the home office can’t wait to get you back for an
honest-to-God annual meeting, Berkshire-style.
February 27, 2021
