our bonds – now with about five years to go before they matured – were selling for 95.7% of their face value. At that
price, their annual yield to maturity was less than 1%. Or, to be precise, .88%.
Given that pathetic return, our bonds had become a dumb – a really dumb – investment compared to
American equities. Over time, the S&P 500 – which mirrors a huge cross-section of American business, appropriately
weighted by market value – has earned far more than 10% annually on shareholders’ equity (net worth).
In November 2012, as we were considering all this, the cash return from dividends on the S&P 500 was 2 1⁄ 2%
annually, about triple the yield on our U.S. Treasury bond. These dividend payments were almost certain to grow.
Beyond that, huge sums were being retained by the companies comprising the 500. These businesses would use their
retained earnings to expand their operations and, frequently, to repurchase their shares as well. Either course would,
over time, substantially increase earnings-per-share. And – as has been the case since 1776 – whatever its problems of
the minute, the American economy was going to move forward.
Presented late in 2012 with the extraordinary valuation mismatch between bonds and equities, Protégé and
I agreed to sell the bonds we had bought five years earlier and use the proceeds to buy 11,200 Berkshire “B” shares.
The result: Girls Inc. of Omaha found itself receiving $2,222,279 last month rather than the $1 million it had originally
hoped for.
Berkshire, it should be emphasized, has not performed brilliantly since the 2012 substitution. But brilliance
wasn’t needed: After all, Berkshire’s gain only had to beat that annual .88% bond bogey – hardly a Herculean
achievement.
The only risk in the bonds-to-Berkshire switch was that yearend 2017 would coincide with an exceptionally
weak stock market. Protégé and I felt this possibility (which always exists) was very low. Two factors dictated this
conclusion: The reasonable price of Berkshire in late 2012, and the large asset build-up that was almost certain to occur
at Berkshire during the five years that remained before the bet would be settled. Even so, to eliminate all risk to the
charities from the switch, I agreed to make up any shortfall if sales of the 11,200 Berkshire shares at yearend 2017
didn’t produce at least $1 million.
************
Investing is an activity in which consumption today is foregone in an attempt to allow greater consumption
at a later date. “Risk” is the possibility that this objective won’t be attained.
By that standard, purportedly “risk-free” long-term bonds in 2012 were a far riskier investment than a longterm investment in common stocks. At that time, even a 1% annual rate of inflation between 2012 and 2017 would
have decreased the purchasing-power of the government bond that Protégé and I sold.
I want to quickly acknowledge that in any upcoming day, week or even year, stocks will be riskier – far
riskier – than short-term U.S. bonds. As an investor’s investment horizon lengthens, however, a diversified portfolio
of U.S. equities becomes progressively less risky than bonds, assuming that the stocks are purchased at a sensible
multiple of earnings relative to then-prevailing interest rates.
It is a terrible mistake for investors with long-term horizons – among them, pension funds, college
endowments and savings-minded individuals – to measure their investment “risk” by their portfolio’s ratio of bonds
to stocks. Often, high-grade bonds in an investment portfolio increase its risk.
************
A final lesson from our bet: Stick with big, “easy” decisions and eschew activity. During the ten-year bet,
the 200-plus hedge-fund managers that were involved almost certainly made tens of thousands of buy and sell
decisions. Most of those managers undoubtedly thought hard about their decisions, each of which they believed would
prove advantageous. In the process of investing, they studied 10-Ks, interviewed managements, read trade journals
and conferred with Wall Street analysts.

13

Protégé and I, meanwhile, leaning neither on research, insights nor brilliance, made only one investment
decision during the ten years. We simply decided to sell our bond investment at a price of more than 100 times earnings
(95.7 sale price/.88 yield), those being “earnings” that could not increase during the ensuing five years.
We made the sale in order to move our money into a single security – Berkshire – that, in turn, owned a
diversified group of solid businesses. Fueled by retained earnings, Berkshire’s growth in value was unlikely to be less
than 8% annually, even if we were to experience a so-so economy.
After that kindergarten-like analysis, Protégé and I made the switch and relaxed, confident that, over time, 8%
was certain to beat .88%. By a lot.
The Annual Meeting
The annual meeting falls on May 5th and will again be webcast by Yahoo!, whose web address is
https://finance.yahoo.com/brklivestream. The webcast will go live at 8:45 a.m. Central Daylight Time. Yahoo! will
interview directors, managers, stockholders and celebrities before the meeting and during the lunch break. Both the
interviews and meeting will be translated simultaneously into Mandarin.
Our partnership with Yahoo! began in 2016 and shareholders have responded enthusiastically. Last year,
real-time viewership increased 72% to about 3.1 million and replays of short segments totaled 17.1 million.
For those attending the meeting in person, the doors at the CenturyLink will open at 7:00 a.m. on Saturday
to facilitate shopping prior to our shareholder movie, which begins at 8:30. The question-and-answer period will start
at 9:15 and run until 3:30, with a one-hour lunch break at noon. Finally, at 3:45 we will begin the formal shareholder
meeting, which usually runs from 15 to 45 minutes. Shopping will end at 4:30.
On Friday, May 4th, our Berkshire exhibitors at CenturyLink will be open from noon until 5 p.m. We added
that extra shopping time in 2015, and serious shoppers love it. Last year about 12,000 people came through the doors
in the five hours we were open on Friday.
Your venue for shopping will be the 194,300-square-foot hall that adjoins the meeting and in which
products from dozens of our subsidiaries will be for sale. (Your Chairman discourages freebies.) Say hello to the many
Berkshire managers who will be captaining their exhibits. And be sure to view the terrific BNSF railroad layout that
salutes all of our companies.
Brooks, our running-shoe company, will again have a special commemorative shoe to offer at the meeting.
After you purchase a pair, wear them on Sunday at our sixth annual “Berkshire 5K,” an 8 a.m. race starting at the
CenturyLink. Full details for participating will be included in the Visitor’s Guide that will be sent to you with your
meeting credentials. Entrants in the race will find themselves running alongside many of Berkshire’s managers,
directors and associates. (Charlie and I, however, will sleep in; even with Brooks running shoes, our times would be
embarrassing.) Participation in the 5K grows every year. Help us set another record.
A GEICO booth in the shopping area will be staffed by a number of the company’s top counselors from
around the country. At last year’s meeting, we set a record for policy sales, up 43% from 2016.
So stop by for a quote. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a shareholder discount (usually 8%).
This special offer is permitted by 44 of the 51 jurisdictions in which we operate. (One supplemental point: The discount
is not additive if you qualify for another discount, such as that available to certain groups.) Bring the details of your
existing insurance and check out our price. We can save many of you real money. Spend the savings on other Berkshire
products.
Be sure to visit the Bookworm. This Omaha-based retailer will carry more than 40 books and DVDs, among
them a couple of new titles. Berkshire shareholders are a bookseller’s dream: When Poor Charlie’s Almanack (yes,
our Charlie) made its debut some years ago, we sold 3,500 copies at the meeting. The book weighed 4.85 pounds. Do
the math: Our shareholders left the building that day carrying about 8 1⁄ 2 tons of Charlie’s wisdom.

14

An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to both the meeting and other events. Keep in mind that most airlines
substantially increase prices for the Berkshire weekend. If you are coming from far away, compare the cost of flying
to Kansas City vs. Omaha. The drive between the two cities is about 2 1⁄ 2 hours, and it may be that Kansas City can
save you significant money. The savings for a couple could run to $1,000 or more. Spend that money with us.
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we will
again be having “Berkshire Weekend” discount pricing. To obtain the Berkshire discount at NFM, you must make
your purchases between Tuesday, May 1st and Monday, May 7th inclusive, and must also present your meeting