we become partners with people who behave like that.

The Star transaction closed on
July 1. In the months since, we've watched Star's already-excellent sales
and earnings growth accelerate further. Melvyn and Shirley will be at the
annual meeting, and I hope you get a chance to meet them.

Next acquisition: International
Dairy Queen. There are 5,792 Dairy Queen stores operating in 23 countries
-- all but a handful run by franchisees -- and in addition IDQ franchises
409 Orange Julius operations and 43 Karmelkorn operations. In 190 locations,
"treat centers" provide some combination of the three products.

For many years IDQ had a bumpy
history. Then, in 1970, a Minneapolis group led by John Mooty and Rudy
Luther took control. The new managers inherited a jumble of different franchising
agreements, along with some unwise financing arrangements that had left
the company in a precarious condition. In the years that followed, management
rationalized the operation, extended food service to many more locations,
and, in general, built a strong organization.

Last summer Mr. Luther died, which
meant his estate needed to sell stock. A year earlier, Dick Kiphart of
William Blair & Co., had introduced me to John Mooty and Mike Sullivan,
IDQ's CEO, and I had been impressed with both men. So, when we got the
chance to merge with IDQ, we offered a proposition patterned on our FlightSafety
acquisition, extending selling shareholders the option of choosing either
cash or Berkshire shares having a slightly lower immediate value. By tilting
the consideration as we did, we encouraged holders to opt for cash, the
type of payment we by far prefer. Even then, only 45% of IDQ shares elected
cash.

Charlie and I bring a modicum of
product expertise to this transaction: He has been patronizing the Dairy
Queens in Cass Lake and Bemidji, Minnesota, for decades, and I have been
a regular in Omaha. We have put our money where our mouth is.

A Confession

I've mentioned that we strongly
prefer to use cash rather than Berkshire stock in acquisitions. A study
of the record will tell you why: If you aggregate all of our stock-only
mergers (excluding those we did with two affiliated companies, Diversified
Retailing and Blue Chip Stamps), you will find that our shareholders are
slightly worse off than they would have been had I not done the transactions.
Though it hurts me to say it, when I've issued stock, I've cost you money.

Be clear about one thing: This
cost has not occurred because we were misled in any way by sellers
or because they thereafter failed to manage with diligence and skill. On
the contrary, the sellers were completely candid when we were negotiating
our deals and have been energetic and effective ever since.

Instead, our problem has been that
we own a truly marvelous collection of businesses, which means that trading
away a portion of them for something new almost never makes sense. When
we issue shares in a merger, we reduce your ownership in all of our businesses
-- partly-owned companies such as Coca-Cola, Gillette and American Express,
and all of our terrific operating companies as well. An example from sports
will illustrate the difficulty we face: For a baseball team, acquiring
a player who can be expected to bat .350 is almost always a wonderful event
-- except when the team must trade a .380 hitter to make the deal.

Because our roster is filled with
.380 hitters, we have tried to pay cash for acquisitions, and here our
record has been far better. Starting with National Indemnity in 1967, and
continuing with, among others, See's, Buffalo News, Scott Fetzer and GEICO,
we have acquired -- for cash -- a number of large businesses that have
performed incredibly well since we bought them. These acquisitions have
delivered Berkshire tremendous value -- indeed, far more than I anticipated
when we made our purchases.

We believe that it is almost impossible
for us to "trade up" from our present businesses and managements.
Our situation is the opposite of Camelot's Mordred, of whom Guenevere commented,
"The one thing I can say for him is that he is bound to marry well.
Everybody is above him." Marrying well is extremely difficult for
Berkshire.

So you can be sure that Charlie
and I will be very reluctant to issue shares in the future. In those cases
when we simply must do so -- when certain shareholders of a desirable acquiree
insist on getting stock -- we will include an attractive cash option in
order to tempt as many of the sellers to take cash as is possible.

Merging with public companies presents
a special problem for us. If we are to offer any premium to the
acquiree, one of two conditions must be present: Either our own stock must
be overvalued relative to the acquiree's, or the two companies together
must be expected to earn more than they would if operated separately. Historically,
Berkshire has seldom been overvalued. In this market, moreover, undervalued
acquirees are almost impossible to find. That other possibility -- synergy
gains -- is usually unrealistic, since we expect acquirees to operate after
we've bought them just as they did before. Joining with Berkshire does
not normally raise their revenues nor cut their costs.

Indeed, their reported costs (but
not their true ones) will rise after they are bought by Berkshire
if the acquiree has been granting options as part of its compensation packages.
In these cases, "earnings" of the acquiree have been overstated
because they have followed the standard -- but, in our view, dead wrong
-- accounting practice of ignoring the cost to a business of issuing options.
When Berkshire acquires an option-issuing company, we promptly substitute
a cash compensation plan having an economic value equivalent to that of
the previous option plan. The acquiree's true compensation cost is thereby
brought out of the closet and charged, as it should be, against earnings.

The reasoning that Berkshire applies
to the merger of public companies should be the calculus for all
buyers. Paying a takeover premium does not make sense for any acquirer
unless a) its stock is overvalued relative to the acquiree's or b) the
two enterprises will earn more combined than they would separately. Predictably,
acquirers normally hew to the second argument because very few are willing
to acknowledge that their stock is overvalued. However, voracious buyers
-- the ones that issue shares as fast as they can print them -- are tacitly
conceding that point. (Often, also, they are running Wall Street's version
of a chain-letter scheme.)

In some mergers there truly are
major synergies -- though oftentimes the acquirer pays too much to obtain
them -- but at other times the cost and revenue benefits that are projected
prove illusory. Of one thing, however, be certain: If a CEO is enthused
about a particularly foolish acquisition, both his internal staff and his
outside advisors will come up with whatever projections are needed to justify
his stance. Only in fairy tales are emperors told that they are naked.

Common Stock Investments

Below we present our common stock
investments. Those with a market value of more than $750 million are itemized.

* Represents tax-basis cost which, in aggregate, is $1.8 billion less than
GAAP cost.

We made net sales during the year
that amounted to about 5% of our beginning portfolio. In these, we significantly
reduced a few of our holdings that are below the $750 million threshold
for itemization, and we also modestly trimmed a few of the larger positions
that we detail. Some of the sales we made during 1997 were aimed at changing
our bond-stock ratio moderately in response to the relative values that
we saw in each market, a realignment we have continued in 1998.

Our reported positions, we should
add, sometimes reflect the investment decisions of GEICO's Lou Simpson.
Lou independently runs an equity portfolio of nearly $2 billion that may
at times overlap the portfolio that I manage, and occasionally he makes
moves that differ from mine.

Though we don't attempt to predict
the movements of the stock market, we do try, in a very rough way, to value
it. At the annual meeting last year, with the Dow at 7,071 and long-term
Treasury yields at 6.89%, Charlie and I stated that we did not consider
the market overvalued if 1) interest rates remained where they were
or fell, and 2) American business continued to earn the remarkable returns
on equity that it had recently recorded. So far, interest rates have fallen
-- that's one requisite satisfied -- and returns on equity still remain
exceptionally high. If they stay there -- and if interest rates hold near
recent levels -- there is no reason to think of stocks as generally overvalued.
On the other hand, returns on equity are not a sure thing to remain at,
or even near, their present levels.

In the summer of 1979, when equities
looked cheap to me, I wrote a Forbes article entitled "You