investment managers made trades by a) drawing stock names from a hat; b) purchasing these stocks in
comparable amounts when Walter made a purchase; and then c) selling when Walter sold his pick, the
luckiest of them would not have come close to equaling his record. There is simply no possibility that what
Walter achieved over 47 years was due to chance.
I first publicly discussed Walter’s remarkable record in 1984. At that time “efficient market
theory” (EMT) was the centerpiece of investment instruction at most major business schools. This theory,
as then most commonly taught, held that the price of any stock at any moment is not demonstrably
mispriced, which means that no investor can be expected to overperform the stock market averages using
only publicly-available information (though some will do so by luck). When I talked about Walter 23 years
ago, his record forcefully contradicted this dogma.
And what did members of the academic community do when they were exposed to this new and
important evidence? Unfortunately, they reacted in all-too-human fashion: Rather than opening their
minds, they closed their eyes. To my knowledge no business school teaching EMT made any attempt to
study Walter’s performance and what it meant for the school’s cherished theory.
Instead, the faculties of the schools went merrily on their way presenting EMT as having the
certainty of scripture. Typically, a finance instructor who had the nerve to question EMT had about as
much chance of major promotion as Galileo had of being named Pope.
Tens of thousands of students were therefore sent out into life believing that on every day the price
of every stock was “right” (or, more accurately, not demonstrably wrong) and that attempts to evaluate
businesses – that is, stocks – were useless. Walter meanwhile went on overperforming, his job made easier
by the misguided instructions that had been given to those young minds. After all, if you are in the
shipping business, it’s helpful to have all of your potential competitors be taught that the earth is flat.
Maybe it was a good thing for his investors that Walter didn’t go to college.

22

The Annual Meeting
Our meeting this year will be held on Saturday, May 5th. As always, the doors will open at the
Qwest Center at 7 a.m., and a new Berkshire movie will be shown at 8:30. At 9:30 we will go directly to
the question-and-answer period, which (with a break for lunch at the Qwest’s stands) will last until 3:00.
Then, after a short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:15. If you decide to leave
during the day’s question periods, please do so while Charlie is talking.
The best reason to exit, of course is to shop. We will help you do that by filling the 194,300
square foot hall that adjoins the meeting area with the products of Berkshire subsidiaries. Last year, the
24,000 people who came to the meeting did their part, and almost every location racked up record sales.
But records are made to be broken, and I know you can do better.
This year we will again showcase a Clayton home (featuring Acme brick, Shaw carpet, Johns
Manville insulation, MiTek fasteners, Carefree awnings and NFM furniture). You will find that the home,
priced at $139,900, delivers excellent value. Last year, a helper at the Qwest bought one of two homes on
display well before we opened the doors to shareholders. Flanking the Clayton home on the exhibition
floor this year will be an RV and pontoon boat from Forest River.
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 45 of the 50 jurisdictions in
which we operate. (One supplemental point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as
that given certain groups.) Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save
you money. For at least 50% of you, I believe we can. And while you’re at it, sign up for the new GEICO
credit card. It’s the one I now use (sparingly, of course).
On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets available
for your inspection. Stop by the NetJets booth at the Qwest to learn about viewing these planes. Come to
Omaha by bus; leave in your new plane. And take all the hair gel that you wish on board with you.
In the Bookworm’s corner of our bazaar, there will be about 25 books and DVDs – all discounted
– led again by Poor Charlie’s Almanack. (One hapless soul last year asked Charlie what he should do if he
didn’t enjoy the book. Back came a Mungerism: “No problem – just give it to someone more intelligent.”)
We’ve added a few titles this year. Among them are Seeking Wisdom: From Darwin to Munger by Peter
Bevelin, a long-time Swedish shareholder of Berkshire, and Fred Schwed’s classic, Where are the
Customers’ Yachts? This book was first published in 1940 and is now in its 4th edition. The funniest book
ever written about investing, it lightly delivers many truly important messages on the subject.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain
the credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car
reservations, we have again signed up American Express (800-799-6634) to give you special help. Carol
Pedersen, who handles these matters, does a terrific job for us each year, and I thank her for it. Hotel
rooms can be hard to find, but work with Carol and you will get one.
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific,
we will again be having “Berkshire Weekend” discount pricing. We initiated this special event at NFM ten
years ago, and sales during the “Weekend” grew from $5.3 million in 1997 to $30 million in 2006. I get
goose bumps just thinking about this volume.
To obtain the Berkshire discount, you must make your purchases between Thursday, May 3rd and
Monday, May 7th inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period’s special pricing will
even apply to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against
discounting but which, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We
appreciate their cooperation. NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m.

23

to 6 p.m. on Sunday. On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., NFM is having a special shareholder
picnic featuring chicken and beef tacos (and hamburgers for traditionalists like me).
At a remodeled and expanded Borsheim’s, we will again have two shareholder-only events. The
first will be a cocktail reception from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday, May 4th. The second, the main gala, will
be held on Sunday, May 6th, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m.
We will have huge crowds at Borsheim’s throughout the weekend. For your convenience,
therefore, shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 30th through Saturday, May 12th.
During that period, please identify yourself as a shareholder by presenting your meeting credentials or a
brokerage statement that shows you are a Berkshire holder.
On Sunday, in a tent outside of Borsheim’s, a blindfolded Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess
champion, will take on all comers – who will have their eyes wide open – in groups of six. Last year I
carried on a conversation with Patrick while he played in this manner. Nearby, Norman Beck, a
remarkable magician from Dallas, will bewilder onlookers. Additionally, we will have Bob Hamman and
Sharon Osberg, two of the world’s top bridge experts, available to play bridge with our shareholders on
Sunday afternoon.
To add to the Sunday fun at Borsheim’s, Ariel Hsing will play table tennis (ping-pong to the
uninitiated) from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. against anyone brave enough to take her on. Ariel, though only 11, is
ranked number one among girls under 16 in the U.S. (and number 1 among both boys and girls under 12).
The week I turned 75 I played Ariel, then 9 and barely tall enough to see across the table, thinking I would
take it easy on her so as not to crush her young spirit. Instead she crushed me. I’ve since devised a plan
that will give me a chance against her. At 1 p.m. on Sunday, I will initiate play with a 2-point game against
Ariel. If I somehow win the first point, I will then feign injury and claim victory. After this strenuous
encounter wears Ariel down, our shareholders can then try their luck against her.