1992 shareholder-designated contributions program.  Contributions 
made through the program were $7.6 million, and 2,810 charities 
were recipients.  I'm considering increasing these contributions in 
the future at a rate greater than the increase in Berkshire's book 
value, and I would be glad to hear from you as to your thinking 
about this idea.

     We suggest that new shareholders read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on pages 
48-49. To participate in future programs, you must make sure your 
shares are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the 
nominee name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so 
registered on August 31, 1993 will be ineligible for the 1993 
program.

     In addition to the shareholder-designated contributions that 
Berkshire distributes, managers of our operating businesses make 
contributions, including merchandise, averaging about $2.0 million 
annually.  These contributions support local charities, such as The 
United Way, and produce roughly commensurate benefits for our 
businesses.

     However, neither our operating managers nor officers of the 
parent company use Berkshire funds to make contributions to broad 
national programs or charitable activities of special personal 
interest to them, except to the extent they do so as shareholders. 
If your employees, including your CEO, wish to give to their alma 
maters or other institutions to which they feel a personal 
attachment, we believe they should use their own money, not yours.


                    * * * * * * * * * * * *


     This year the Annual Meeting will be held at the Orpheum 
Theater in downtown Omaha at 9:30 a.m. on Monday, April 26, 1993.  
A record 1,700 people turned up for the meeting last year, but that 
number still leaves plenty of room at the Orpheum.

     We recommend that you get your hotel reservations early at one 
of these hotels: (1) The Radisson-Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) 
but nice hotel across the street from the Orpheum; (2) the much 
larger Red Lion Hotel, located about a five-minute walk from the 
Orpheum; or (3) the Marriott, located in West Omaha about 100 yards 
from Borsheim's, which is a twenty minute drive from downtown. We 
will have buses at the Marriott that will leave at 8:30 and 8:45 
for the meeting and return after it ends.

     Charlie and I always enjoy the meeting, and we hope you can 
make it. The quality of our shareholders is reflected in the 
quality of the questions we get: We have never attended an annual 
meeting anywhere that features such a consistently high level of 
intelligent, owner-related questions.

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can 
obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting. With 
the admission card, we will enclose information about parking 
facilities located near the Orpheum. If you are driving, come a 
little early. Nearby lots fill up quickly and you may have to walk 
a few blocks.

     As usual, we will have buses to take you to Nebraska Furniture 
Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and to take you from there to 
downtown hotels or the airport later. I hope that you will allow 
plenty of time to fully explore the attractions of both stores. 
Those of you arriving early can visit the Furniture Mart any day of 
the week; it is open from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Saturdays and 
from noon to 5:30 p.m. on Sundays. While there, stop at the See's 
Candy Cart and find out for yourself why Charlie and I are a good 
bit wider than we were back in 1972 when we bought See's.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open for 
shareholders and their guests from noon to 6 p.m. on Sunday, April 
25.  Charlie and I will be in attendance, sporting our jeweler's 
loupes, and ready to give advice about gems to anyone foolish 
enough to listen.  Also available will be plenty of Cherry Cokes, 
See's candies, and other lesser goodies.  I hope you will join us.



                                          Warren E. Buffett
March 1, 1993                             Chairman of the Board
