We show below an updated table of the industry statistics we 
utilized in last year’s annual report.  Its message is clear: 
underwriting results in 1983 will not be a sight for the 
squeamish.
Yearly Change     Yearly Change      Combined Ratio
                       in Premiums       in Premiums        after Policy-
                       Written (%)        Earned (%)      holder Dividends
-------------     -------------     ----------------
1972 ................     10.2              10.9                96.2
1973 ................      8.0               8.8                99.2
1974 ................      6.2               6.9               105.4
1975 ................     11.0               9.6               107.9
1976 ................     21.9              19.4               102.4
1977 ................     19.8              20.5                97.2
1978 ................     12.8              14.3                97.5
1979 ................     10.3              10.4               100.6
1980 ................      6.0               7.8               103.1
1981 (Rev.) .........      3.9               4.1               106.0
1982 (Est.) .........      5.1               4.6               109.5

Source:   Best’s Aggregates and Averages.

     The Best’s data reflect the experience of practically the 
entire industry, including stock, mutual and reciprocal 
companies.  The combined ratio represents total operating and 
loss costs as compared to revenue from premiums; a ratio below 
100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 100 indicates 
a loss.

     For reasons outlined in last year’s report, as long as the 
annual gain in industry premiums written falls well below 10%, 
you can expect the underwriting picture in the next year to 
deteriorate.  This will be true even at today’s lower general 
rate of inflation.  With the number of policies increasing 
annually, medical inflation far exceeding general inflation, and 
concepts of insured liability broadening, it is highly unlikely 
that yearly increases in insured losses will fall much below 10%.  

     You should be further aware that the 1982 combined ratio of 
109.5 represents a “best case” estimate.  In a given year, it is 
possible for an insurer to show almost any profit number it 
wishes, particularly if it (1) writes “long-tail” business 
(coverage where current costs can be only estimated, because 
claim payments are long delayed), (2) has been adequately 
reserved in the past, or (3)	is growing very rapidly.  There are 
indications that several large insurers opted in 1982 for obscure 
accounting and reserving maneuvers that masked significant 
deterioration in their underlying businesses.  In insurance, as 
elsewhere, the reaction of weak managements to weak operations is 
often weak accounting. (“It’s difficult for an empty sack to 
stand upright.”)

     The great majority of managements, however, try to play it 
straight.  But even managements of integrity may subconsciously 
be less willing in poor profit years to fully recognize adverse 
loss trends.  Industry statistics indicate some deterioration in 
loss reserving practices during 1982 and the true combined ratio 
is likely to be modestly worse than indicated by our table.

     The conventional wisdom is that 1983 or 1984 will see the 
worst of underwriting experience and then, as in the past, the 
“cycle” will move, significantly and steadily, toward better 
results.  We disagree because of a pronounced change in the 
competitive environment, hard to see for many years but now quite 
visible.

     To understand the change, we need to look at some major 
factors that affect levels of corporate profitability generally.  
Businesses in industries with both substantial over-capacity and 
a “commodity” product (undifferentiated in any customer-important 
way by factors such as performance, appearance, service support, 
etc.) are prime candidates for profit troubles.  These may be 
escaped, true, if prices or costs are administered in some manner 
and thereby insulated at least partially from normal market 
forces.  This administration can be carried out (a) legally 
through government intervention (until recently, this category 
included pricing for truckers and deposit costs for financial 
institutions), (b) illegally through collusion, or (c) “extra-
legally” through OPEC-style foreign cartelization (with tag-along 
benefits for domestic non-cartel operators).

     If, however, costs and prices are determined by full-bore 
competition, there is more than ample capacity, and the buyer 
cares little about whose product or distribution services he 
uses, industry economics are almost certain to be unexciting.  
They may well be disastrous.

     Hence the constant struggle of every vendor to establish and 
emphasize special qualities of product or service.  This works 
with candy bars (customers buy by brand name, not by asking for a 
“two-ounce candy bar”) but doesn’t work with sugar (how often do 
you hear, “I’ll have a cup of coffee with cream and C & H sugar, 
please”).

     In many industries, differentiation simply can’t be made 
meaningful.  A few producers in such industries may consistently 
do well if they have a cost advantage that is both wide and 
sustainable.  By definition such exceptions are few, and, in many 
industries, are non-existent.  For the great majority of 
companies selling “commodity”products, a depressing equation of 
business economics prevails: persistent over-capacity without 
administered prices (or costs) equals poor profitability.

     Of course, over-capacity may eventually self-correct, either 
as capacity shrinks or demand expands.  Unfortunately for the 
participants, such corrections often are long delayed.  When they 
finally occur, the rebound to prosperity frequently produces a 
pervasive enthusiasm for expansion that, within a few years, 
again creates over-capacity and a new profitless environment.  In 
other words, nothing fails like success.

     What finally determines levels of long-term profitability in 
such industries is the ratio of supply-tight to supply-ample 
years.  Frequently that ratio is dismal. (It seems as if the most 
recent supply-tight period in our textile business - it occurred 
some years back - lasted the better part of a morning.)

     In some industries, however, capacity-tight conditions can 
last a long time.  Sometimes actual growth in demand will outrun 
forecasted growth for an extended period.  In other cases, adding 
capacity requires very long lead times because complicated 
manufacturing facilities must be planned and built.

     But in the insurance business, to return to that subject, 
capacity can be instantly created by capital plus an 
underwriter’s willingness to sign his name. (Even capital is less 
important in a world in which state-sponsored guaranty funds 
protect many policyholders against insurer insolvency.) Under 
almost all conditions except that of fear for survival - 
produced, perhaps, by a stock market debacle or a truly major 
natural disaster - the insurance industry operates under the 
competitive sword of substantial overcapacity.  Generally, also, 
despite heroic attempts to do otherwise, the industry sells a 
relatively undifferentiated commodity-type product. (Many 
insureds, including the managers of large businesses, do not even 
know the names of their insurers.) Insurance, therefore, would 
seem to be a textbook case of an industry usually faced with the 
deadly combination of excess capacity and a “commodity” product.

     Why, then, was underwriting, despite the existence of 
cycles, generally profitable over many decades? (From 1950 
through 1970, the industry combined ratio averaged 99.0.  
allowing all investment income plus 1% of premiums to flow 
through to profits.) The answer lies primarily in the historic 
methods of regulation and distribution.  For much of this 
century, a large portion of the industry worked, in effect, 
within a legal quasi-administered pricing system fostered by 
insurance regulators.  While price competition existed, it was 
not pervasive among the larger companies.  The main competition 
was for agents, who were courted via various non-price-related 
strategies.

     For the giants of the industry, most rates were set through 
negotiations between industry “bureaus” (or through companies 
acting in accord with their recommendations) and state 
regulators.  Dignified haggling occurred, but it was between 
company and regulator rather than between company and customer.  
When the dust settled, Giant A charged the same price as Giant B 
- and both companies and agents were prohibited by law from 
cutting such filed rates.

     The company-state negotiated prices included specific profit 
allowances and, when loss data indicated that current prices were 
unprofitable, both company managements and state regulators 
expected that they would act together to correct the situation.  
Thus, most of the pricing actions of the giants of the industry 
were “gentlemanly”, predictable, and profit-producing.  Of prime 
importance - and in contrast to the way most of the business 
world operated - insurance companies could legally price their 
way to profitability even in the face of substantial over-
capacity.

     That day is gone.  Although parts of the old structure 
remain, far more than enough new capacity exists outside of that 
structure to force all parties, old and new, to respond.  The new 
capacity uses various methods of distribution and is not 
reluctant to use price as a prime competitive weapon.  Indeed, it 
relishes that use.  In the process, customers have learned that 
insurance is no longer a one-price business.  They won’t forget.

     Future profitability of the industry will be determined by 
current competitive characteristics, not past ones.  Many 
managers have been slow to recognize this.  It’s not only 
generals that prefer to fight the last war.  Most business and 
investment analysis also comes from the rear-view mirror.  It 
seems clear to us, however, that only one condition will allow 
the insurance industry to achieve significantly improved 
underwriting results.  That is the same condition that will allow 
better results for the aluminum, copper, or corn producer - a 
major narrowing of the gap between demand and supply.

     Unfortunately, there can be no surge in demand for insurance 
policies comparable to one that might produce a market tightness 
in copper or aluminum.  Rather, the supply of available insurance 
coverage must be curtailed.  “Supply”, in this context, is mental 