
     Phil Fisher, a respected investor and author, once likened 
the policies of the corporation in attracting shareholders to 
those of a restaurant attracting potential customers.  A 
restaurant could seek a given clientele - patrons of fast foods, 
elegant dining, Oriental food, etc. - and eventually obtain an 
appropriate group of devotees.  If the job were expertly done, 
that clientele, pleased with the service, menu, and price level 
offered, would return consistently.  But the restaurant could not 
change its character constantly and end up with a happy and 
stable clientele.  If the business vacillated between French 
cuisine and take-out chicken, the result would be a revolving 
door of confused and dissatisfied customers.

     So it is with corporations and the shareholder constituency 
they seek.  You can’t be all things to all men, simultaneously 
seeking different owners whose primary interests run from high 
current yield to long-term capital growth to stock market 
pyrotechnics, etc.

     The reasoning of managements that seek large trading 
activity in their shares puzzles us.  In effect, such managements 
are saying that they want a good many of the existing clientele 
continually to desert them in favor of new ones - because you 
can’t add lots of new owners (with new expectations) without 
losing lots of former owners.

     We much prefer owners who like our service and menu and who 
return year after year.  It would be hard to find a better group 
to sit in the Berkshire Hathaway shareholder “seats” than those 
already occupying them.  So we hope to continue to have a very 
low turnover among our owners, reflecting a constituency that 
understands our operation, approves of our policies, and shares 
our expectations.  And we hope to deliver on those expectations.
Prospects
Last year we said that we expected operating earnings in 
dollars to improve but return on equity to decrease.  This turned 
out to be correct.  Our forecast for 1980 is the same.  If we are 
wrong, it will be on the downside.  In other words, we are 
virtually certain that our operating earnings expressed as a 
percentage of the new equity base of approximately $236 million, 
valuing securities at cost, will decline from the 18.6% attained 
in 1979.  There is also a fair chance that operating earnings in 
aggregate dollars will fall short of 1979; the outcome depends 
partly upon the date of disposition of the bank, partly upon the 
degree of slippage in insurance underwriting profitability, and 
partly upon the severity of earnings problems in the savings and 
loan industry.

     We continue to feel very good about our insurance equity 
investments.  Over a period of years, we expect to develop very 
large and growing amounts of underlying earning power 
attributable to our fractional ownership of these companies.  In 
most cases they are splendid businesses, splendidly managed, 
purchased at highly attractive prices.

     Your company is run on the principle of centralization of 
financial decisions at the top (the very top, it might be added), 
and rather extreme delegation of operating authority to a number 
of key managers at the individual company or business unit level.  
We could just field a basketball team with our corporate 
headquarters group (which utilizes only about 1500 square feet of 
space).

     This approach produces an occasional major mistake that 
might have been eliminated or minimized through closer operating 
controls.  But it also eliminates large layers of costs and 
dramatically speeds decision-making.  Because everyone has a 
great deal to do, a very great deal gets done.  Most important of 
all, it enables us to attract and retain some extraordinarily 
talented individuals - people who simply can’t be hired in the 
normal course of events - who find working for Berkshire to be 
almost identical to running their own show.

     We have placed much trust in them - and their achievements 
have far exceeded that trust.



                                    Warren E. Buffett, Chairman
March 3, 1980
