The Pampered Chef; our wonderful office group has made me The Pampered Chief.)
CEO perks at one company are quickly copied elsewhere. “All the other kids have one” may seem
a thought too juvenile to use as a rationale in the boardroom. But consultants employ precisely this
argument, phrased more elegantly of course, when they make recommendations to comp committees.
Irrational and excessive comp practices will not be materially changed by disclosure or by
“independent” comp committee members. Indeed, I think it’s likely that the reason I was rejected for
service on so many comp committees was that I was regarded as too independent. Compensation reform
will only occur if the largest institutional shareholders – it would only take a few – demand a fresh look at
the whole system. The consultants’ present drill of deftly selecting “peer” companies to compare with their
clients will only perpetuate present excesses.
************
Last year I arranged for the bulk of my Berkshire holdings to go to five charitable foundations,
thus carrying out part of my lifelong plan to eventually use all of my shares for philanthropic purposes.
Details of the commitments I made, as well as the rationale for them, are posted on our website,
www.berkshirehathaway.com. Taxes, I should note, had nothing to do with my decision or its timing. My
federal and state income taxes in 2006 were exactly what they would have been had I not made my first
contributions last summer, and the same point will apply to my 2007 contributions.
In my will I’ve stipulated that the proceeds from all Berkshire shares I still own at death are to be
used for philanthropic purposes within ten years after my estate is closed. Because my affairs are not
complicated, it should take three years at most for this closing to occur. Adding this 13-year period to my
expected lifespan of about 12 years (though, naturally, I’m aiming for more) means that proceeds from all
of my Berkshire shares will likely be distributed for societal purposes over the next 25 years or so.
I’ve set this schedule because I want the money to be spent relatively promptly by people I know
to be capable, vigorous and motivated. These managerial attributes sometimes wane as institutions –
particularly those that are exempt from market forces – age. Today, there are terrific people in charge at
the five foundations. So at my death, why should they not move with dispatch to judiciously spend the
money that remains?

20

Those people favoring perpetual foundations argue that in the future there will most certainly be
large and important societal problems that philanthropy will need to address. I agree. But there will then
also be many super-rich individuals and families whose wealth will exceed that of today’s Americans and
to whom philanthropic organizations can make their case for funding. These funders can then judge
firsthand which operations have both the vitality and the focus to best address the major societal problems
that then exist. In this way, a market test of ideas and effectiveness can be applied. Some organizations
will deserve major support while others will have outlived their usefulness. Even if the people above
ground make their decisions imperfectly, they should be able to allocate funds more rationally than a
decedent six feet under will have ordained decades earlier. Wills, of course, can always be rewritten, but
it’s very unlikely that my thinking will change in a material way.
A few shareholders have expressed concern that sales of Berkshire by the foundations receiving
shares will depress the stock. These fears are unwarranted. The annual trading volume of many stocks
exceeds 100% of the outstanding shares, but nevertheless these stocks usually sell at prices approximating
their intrinsic value. Berkshire also tends to sell at an appropriate price, but with annual volume that is only
15% of shares outstanding. At most, sales by the foundations receiving my shares will add three
percentage points to annual trading volume, which will still leave Berkshire with a turnover ratio that is the
lowest around.
Overall, Berkshire’s business performance will determine the price of our stock, and most of the
time it will sell in a zone of reasonableness. It’s important that the foundations receive appropriate prices
as they periodically sell Berkshire shares, but it’s also important that incoming shareholders don’t overpay.
(See economic principle 14 on page 77.) By both our policies and shareholder communications, Charlie
and I will do our best to ensure that Berkshire sells at neither a large discount nor large premium to intrinsic
value.
The existence of foundation ownership will in no way influence our board’s decisions about
dividends, repurchases, or the issuance of shares. We will follow exactly the same rule that has guided us
in the past: What action will be likely to deliver the best result for shareholders over time?
*************
In last year’s report I allegorically described the Gotrocks family – a clan that owned all of
America’s businesses and that counterproductively attempted to increase its investment returns by paying
ever-greater commissions and fees to “helpers.” Sad to say, the “family” continued its self-destructive
ways in 2006.
In part the family persists in this folly because it harbors unrealistic expectations about obtainable
returns. Sometimes these delusions are self-serving. For example, private pension plans can temporarily
overstate their earnings, and public pension plans can defer the need for increased taxes, by using
investment assumptions that are likely to be out of reach. Actuaries and auditors go along with these
tactics, and it can be decades before the chickens come home to roost (at which point the CEO or public
official who misled the world is apt to be gone).
Meanwhile, Wall Street’s Pied Pipers of Performance will have encouraged the futile hopes of the
family. The hapless Gotrocks will be assured that they all can achieve above-average investment
performance – but only by paying ever-higher fees. Call this promise the adult version of Lake Woebegon.
In 2006, promises and fees hit new highs. A flood of money went from institutional investors to
the 2-and-20 crowd. For those innocent of this arrangement, let me explain: It’s a lopsided system whereby
2% of your principal is paid each year to the manager even if he accomplishes nothing – or, for that matter,
loses you a bundle – and, additionally, 20% of your profit is paid to him if he succeeds, even if his success
is due simply to a rising tide. For example, a manager who achieves a gross return of 10% in a year will
keep 3.6 percentage points – two points off the top plus 20% of the residual 8 points – leaving only 6.4
percentage points for his investors. On a $3 billion fund, this 6.4% net “performance” will deliver the
manager a cool $108 million. He will receive this bonanza even though an index fund might have returned
15% to investors in the same period and charged them only a token fee.

21

The inexorable math of this grotesque arrangement is certain to make the Gotrocks family poorer
over time than it would have been had it never heard of these “hyper-helpers.” Even so, the 2-and-20
action spreads. Its effects bring to mind the old adage: When someone with experience proposes a deal to
someone with money, too often the fellow with money ends up with the experience, and the fellow with
experience ends up with the money.
************
Let me end this section by telling you about one of the good guys of Wall Street, my long-time
friend Walter Schloss, who last year turned 90. From 1956 to 2002, Walter managed a remarkably
successful investment partnership, from which he took not a dime unless his investors made money. My
admiration for Walter, it should be noted, is not based on hindsight. A full fifty years ago, Walter was my
sole recommendation to a St. Louis family who wanted an honest and able investment manager.
Walter did not go to business school, or for that matter, college. His office contained one file
cabinet in 1956; the number mushroomed to four by 2002. Walter worked without a secretary, clerk or
bookkeeper, his only associate being his son, Edwin, a graduate of the North Carolina School of the Arts.
Walter and Edwin never came within a mile of inside information. Indeed, they used “outside” information
only sparingly, generally selecting securities by certain simple statistical methods Walter learned while
working for Ben Graham. When Walter and Edwin were asked in 1989 by Outstanding Investors Digest,
“How would you summarize your approach?” Edwin replied, “We try to buy stocks cheap.” So much for
Modern Portfolio Theory, technical analysis, macroeconomic thoughts and complex algorithms.
Following a strategy that involved no real risk – defined as permanent loss of capital – Walter
produced results over his 47 partnership years that dramatically surpassed those of the S&P 500. It’s
particularly noteworthy that he built this record by investing in about 1,000 securities, mostly of a
lackluster type. A few big winners did not account for his success. It’s safe to say that had millions of