valued partner.
ISCAR’s products are small, consumable cutting tools that are used in conjunction with large and
expensive machine tools. It’s a business without magic except for that imparted by the people who run it.
But Eitan, Jacob and their associates are true managerial magicians who constantly develop tools that make
their customers’ machines more productive. The result: ISCAR makes money because it enables its
customers to make more money. There is no better recipe for continued success.

5

In September, Charlie and I, along with five Berkshire associates, visited ISCAR in Israel. We –
and I mean every one of us – have never been more impressed with any operation. At ISCAR, as
throughout Israel, brains and energy are ubiquitous. Berkshire shareholders are lucky to have joined with
Eitan, Jacob, Danny and their talented associates.
************
A few months later, Berkshire again became “the buyer of choice” in a deal brought to us by my
friend, John Roach, of Fort Worth. John, many of you will remember, was Chairman of Justin Industries,
which we bought in 2000. At that time John was helping John Justin, who was terminally ill, find a
permanent home for his company. John Justin died soon after we bought Justin Industries, but it has since
been run exactly as we promised him it would be.
Visiting me in November, John Roach brought along Paul Andrews, Jr., owner of about 80% of
TTI, a Fort Worth distributor of electronic components. Over a 35-year period, Paul built TTI from
$112,000 of sales to $1.3 billion. He is a remarkable entrepreneur and operator.
Paul, 64, loves running his business. But not long ago he happened to witness how disruptive the
death of a founder can be both to a private company’s employees and the owner’s family. What starts out
as disruptive, furthermore, often evolves into destructive. About a year ago, therefore, Paul began to think
about selling TTI. His goal was to put his business in the hands of an owner he had carefully chosen, rather
than allowing a trust officer or lawyer to conduct an auction after his death.
Paul rejected the idea of a “strategic” buyer, knowing that in the pursuit of “synergies,” an owner
of that type would be apt to dismantle what he had so carefully built, a move that would uproot hundreds of
his associates (and perhaps wound TTI’s business in the process). He also ruled out a private equity firm,
which would very likely load the company with debt and then flip it as soon as possible.
That left Berkshire. Paul and I met on the morning of November 15th and made a deal before
lunch. Later he wrote me: “After our meeting, I am confident that Berkshire is the right owner for TTI . . .
I am proud of our past and excited about our future.” And so are Charlie and I.
************
We also made some “tuck-in” acquisitions during 2006 at Fruit of the Loom (“Fruit”), MiTek,
CTB, Shaw and Clayton. Fruit made the largest purchases. First, it bought Russell Corp., a leading
producer of athletic apparel and uniforms for about $1.2 billion (including assumed debt) and in December
it agreed to buy the intimate apparel business of VF Corp. Together, these acquisitions add about $2.2
billion to Fruit’s sales and bring with them about 23,000 employees.
Charlie and I love it when we can acquire businesses that can be placed under managers, such as
John Holland at Fruit, who have already shown their stuff at Berkshire. MiTek, for example, has made 14
acquisitions since we purchased it in 2001, and Gene Toombs has delivered results from these deals far in
excess of what he had predicted. In effect, we leverage the managerial talent already with us by these tuckin deals. We will make many more.
************
We continue, however, to need “elephants” in order for us to use Berkshire’s flood of incoming
cash. Charlie and I must therefore ignore the pursuit of mice and focus our acquisition efforts on much
bigger game.
Our exemplar is the older man who crashed his grocery cart into that of a much younger fellow
while both were shopping. The elderly man explained apologetically that he had lost track of his wife and
was preoccupied searching for her. His new acquaintance said that by coincidence his wife had also
wandered off and suggested that it might be more efficient if they jointly looked for the two women.
Agreeing, the older man asked his new companion what his wife looked like. “She’s a gorgeous blonde,”
the fellow answered, “with a body that would cause a bishop to go through a stained glass window, and
she’s wearing tight white shorts. How about yours?” The senior citizen wasted no words: “Forget her,
we’ll look for yours.”

6

What we are looking for is described on page 25. If you have an acquisition candidate that fits,
call me – day or night. And then watch me shatter a stained glass window.
************
Now, let’s examine the four major operating sectors of Berkshire. Lumping their financial figures
together impedes analysis. So we’ll look at them as four separate businesses, starting with the all–
important insurance group.
Insurance
Next month marks the 40th anniversary of our entrance into the insurance business. It was on
March 9, 1967, that Berkshire purchased National Indemnity and its companion company, National Fire &
Marine, from Jack Ringwalt for $8.6 million.
Jack was a long-time friend of mine and an excellent, but somewhat eccentric, businessman. For
about ten minutes every year he would get the urge to sell his company. But those moods – perhaps
brought on by a tiff with regulators or an unfavorable jury verdict – quickly vanished.
In the mid-1960s, I asked investment banker Charlie Heider, a mutual friend of mine and Jack’s,
to alert me the next time Jack was “in heat.” When Charlie’s call came, I sped to meet Jack. We made a
deal in a few minutes, with me waiving an audit, “due diligence” or anything else that would give Jack an
opportunity to reconsider. We just shook hands, and that was that.
When we were due to close the purchase at Charlie’s office, Jack was late. Finally arriving, he
explained that he had been driving around looking for a parking meter with some unexpired time. That was
a magic moment for me. I knew then that Jack was going to be my kind of manager.
When Berkshire purchased Jack’s two insurers, they had “float” of $17 million. We’ve regularly
offered a long explanation of float in earlier reports, which you can read on our website. Simply put, float
is money we hold that is not ours but which we get to invest.
At the end of 2006, our float had grown to $50.9 billion, and we have since written a huge
retroactive reinsurance contract with Equitas – which I will describe in the next section – that boosts float
by another $7 billion. Much of the gain we’ve made has come through our acquisition of other insurers,
but we’ve also had outstanding internal growth, particularly at Ajit Jain’s amazing reinsurance operation.
Naturally, I had no notion in 1967 that our float would develop as it has. There’s much to be said for just
putting one foot in front of the other every day.
The float from retroactive reinsurance contracts, of which we have many, automatically drifts
down over time. Therefore, it will be difficult for us to increase float in the future unless we make new
acquisitions in the insurance field. Whatever its size, however, the all-important cost of Berkshire’s float
over time is likely to be significantly below that of the industry, perhaps even falling to less than zero.
Note the words “over time.” There will be bad years periodically. You can be sure of that.
In 2006, though, everything went right in insurance – really right. Our managers – Tony Nicely
(GEICO), Ajit Jain (B-H Reinsurance), Joe Brandon and Tad Montross (General Re), Don Wurster
(National Indemnity Primary), Tom Nerney (U.S. Liability), Tim Kenesey (Medical Protective), Rod
Eldred (Homestate Companies and Cypress), Sid Ferenc and Steve Menzies (Applied Underwriters), John
Kizer (Central States) and Don Towle (Kansas Bankers Surety) – simply shot the lights out. When I recite
their names, I feel as if I’m at Cooperstown, reading from the Hall of Fame roster. Of course, the overall
insurance industry also had a terrific year in 2006. But our managers delivered results generally superior to
those of their competitors.

7

Below is the tally on our underwriting and float for each major sector of insurance. Enjoy the
view, because you won’t soon see another like it.
(in $ millions)
Underwriting Profit (Loss)
Yearend Float
Insurance Operations
2006
2005
2006
2005
General Re .......................
$ 526
$( 334)
$22,827
$22,920
B-H Reinsurance ..............
1,658
(1,069)
16,860
16,233
GEICO .............................
1,314
1,221
7,171
6,692
Other Primary...................
340**
235*
4,029
3,442
Total .................................
$3,838
$ 53
$50,887
$49,287