If compensation isn’t an expense, what is it? And, if real and recurring expenses don’t belong in the calculation of
earnings, where in the world do they belong?
Wall Street analysts often play their part in this charade, too, parroting the phony, compensation-ignoring
“earnings” figures fed them by managements. Maybe the offending analysts don’t know any better. Or maybe they
fear losing “access” to management. Or maybe they are cynical, telling themselves that since everyone else is
playing the game, why shouldn’t they go along with it. Whatever their reasoning, these analysts are guilty of
propagating misleading numbers that can deceive investors.
Depreciation charges are a more complicated subject but are almost always true costs. Certainly they are at
Berkshire. I wish we could keep our businesses competitive while spending less than our depreciation charge, but in
51 years I’ve yet to figure out how to do so. Indeed, the depreciation charge we record in our railroad business falls
far short of the capital outlays needed to merely keep the railroad running properly, a mismatch that leads to GAAP
earnings that are higher than true economic earnings. (This overstatement of earnings exists at all railroads.) When
CEOs or investment bankers tout pre-depreciation figures such as EBITDA as a valuation guide, watch their noses
lengthen while they speak.
Our public reports of earnings will, of course, continue to conform to GAAP. To embrace reality, however,
you should remember to add back most of the amortization charges we report. You should also subtract something
to reflect BNSF’s inadequate depreciation charge.
************
Let’s get back to our many manufacturing, service and retailing operations, which sell products ranging
from lollipops to jet airplanes. Some of this sector’s businesses, measured by earnings on unleveraged net tangible
assets, enjoy terrific economics, producing profits that run from 25% after-tax to far more than 100%. Others
generate good returns in the area of 12% to 20%.
A few, however – these are serious mistakes I made in my job of capital allocation – have very poor
returns. In most of these cases, I was wrong in my evaluation of the economic dynamics of the company or the
industry in which it operates, and we are now paying the price for my misjudgments. At other times, I stumbled in
evaluating either the fidelity or the ability of incumbent managers or ones I later appointed. I will commit more
errors; you can count on that. If we luck out, they will occur at our smaller operations.
Viewed as a single entity, the companies in this group are an excellent business. They employed an average
of $25.6 billion of net tangible assets during 2015 and, despite their holding large quantities of excess cash and
using only token amounts of leverage, earned 18.4% after-tax on that capital.

16

Of course, a business with terrific economics can be a bad investment if it is bought at too high a price. We
have paid substantial premiums to net tangible assets for most of our businesses, a cost that is reflected in the large
figure we show for goodwill and other intangibles. Overall, however, we are getting a decent return on the capital
we have deployed in this sector. Earnings from the group should grow substantially in 2016 as Duracell and
Precision Castparts enter the fold.
************
We have far too many companies in this group to comment on them individually. Moreover, their
competitors – both current and potential – read this report. In a few of our businesses we might be disadvantaged if
others knew our numbers. In some of our operations that are not of a size material to an evaluation of Berkshire,
therefore, we only disclose what is required. You can nevertheless find a good bit of detail about many of our
operations on pages 88-91.
Finance and Financial Products
Our three leasing and rental operations are conducted by CORT (furniture), XTRA (semi-trailers), and
Marmon (primarily tank cars but also freight cars, intermodal tank containers and cranes). These companies are
industry leaders and have substantially increased their earnings as the American economy has gained strength. At
each of the three, we have invested more money in new equipment than have many of our competitors, and that’s
paid off. Dealing from strength is one of Berkshire’s enduring advantages.
Kevin Clayton has again delivered an industry-leading performance at Clayton Homes, the second-largest
home builder in America. Last year, the company sold 34,397 homes, about 45% of the manufactured homes bought
by Americans. In contrast, the company was number three in the field, with a 14% share, when Berkshire purchased
it in 2003.
Manufactured homes allow the American dream of home ownership to be achieved by lower-income
citizens: Around 70% of new homes costing $150,000 or less come from our industry. About 46% of Clayton’s
homes are sold through the 331 stores we ourselves own and operate. Most of Clayton’s remaining sales are made to
1,395 independent retailers.
Key to Clayton’s operation is its $12.8 billion mortgage portfolio. We originate about 35% of all
mortgages on manufactured homes. About 37% of our mortgage portfolio emanates from our retail operation, with
the balance primarily originated by independent retailers, some of which sell our homes while others market only
the homes of our competitors.
Lenders other than Clayton have come and gone. With Berkshire’s backing, however, Clayton steadfastly
financed home buyers throughout the panic days of 2008-2009. Indeed, during that period, Clayton used precious
capital to finance dealers who did not sell our homes. The funds we supplied to Goldman Sachs and General Electric
at that time produced headlines; the funds Berkshire quietly delivered to Clayton both made home ownership
possible for thousands of families and kept many non-Clayton dealers alive.
Our retail outlets, employing simple language and large type, consistently inform home buyers of
alternative sources for financing – most of it coming from local banks – and always secure acknowledgments from
customers that this information has been received and read. (The form we use is reproduced in its actual size on
page 119.)

17

Mortgage-origination practices are of great importance to both the borrower and to society. There is no
question that reckless practices in home lending played a major role in bringing on the financial panic of 2008,
which in turn led to the Great Recession. In the years preceding the meltdown, a destructive and often corrupt
pattern of mortgage creation flourished whereby (1) an originator in, say, California would make loans and
(2) promptly sell them to an investment or commercial bank in, say, New York, which would package many
mortgages to serve as collateral for a dizzyingly complicated array of mortgage-backed securities to be (3) sold to
unwitting institutions around the world.
As if these sins weren’t sufficient to create an unholy mess, imaginative investment bankers sometimes
concocted a second layer of sliced-up financing whose value depended on the junkier portions of primary offerings.
(When Wall Street gets “innovative,” watch out!) While that was going on, I described this “doubling-up” practice
as requiring an investor to read tens of thousands of pages of mind-numbing prose to evaluate a single security
being offered.
Both the originator and the packager of these financings had no skin in the game and were driven by
volume and mark-ups. Many housing borrowers joined the party as well, blatantly lying on their loan applications
while mortgage originators looked the other way. Naturally, the gamiest credits generated the most profits. Smooth
Wall Street salesmen garnered millions annually by manufacturing products that their customers were unable to
understand. (It’s also questionable as to whether the major rating agencies were capable of evaluating the more
complex structures. But rate them they did.)
Barney Frank, perhaps the most financially-savvy member of Congress during the panic, recently assessed
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, saying, “The one major weakness that I’ve seen in the implementation was this decision
by the regulators not to impose risk retention on all residential mortgages.” Today, some legislators and
commentators continue to advocate a 1%-to-5% retention by the originator as a way to align its interests with that of
the ultimate lender or mortgage guarantor.
At Clayton, our risk retention was, and is, 100%. When we originate a mortgage we keep it (leaving aside
the few that qualify for a government guarantee). When we make mistakes in granting credit, we therefore pay a
price – a hefty price that dwarfs any profit we realized upon the original sale of the home. Last year we had to
foreclose on 8,444 manufactured-housing mortgages at a cost to us of $157 million.
The average loan we made in 2015 was only $59,942, small potatoes for traditional mortgage lenders, but a
daunting commitment for our many lower-income borrowers. Our buyer acquires a decent home – take a look at the
home we will have on display at our annual meeting – requiring monthly principal-and-interest payments that
average $522.
Some borrowers, of course, will lose their jobs, and there will be divorces and deaths. Others will get overextended on credit cards and mishandle their finances. We will lose money then, and our borrower will lose his