cutlery, encyclopedias, and the like.  Among my favorites slated to 
be there is a See's candy assortment that commemorates Mrs. B's 
100th birthday and that features her picture, rather than Mrs. 
See's, on the package.

     We recommend that you promptly get hotel reservations at one 
of these hotels: (1) The Radisson-Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) 
but nice hotel across the street from the Orpheum; (2) the much 
larger Red Lion Hotel, located about a five-minute walk from the 
Orpheum; or (3) the Marriott, located in West Omaha about 100 yards 
from Borsheim's, which is a twenty-minute drive from downtown. We 
will have buses at the Marriott that will leave at 8:30 and 8:45 
for the meeting and return after it ends.

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can 
obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting.  With 
the admission card, we will enclose information about parking 
facilities located near the Orpheum.  If you are driving, come a 
little early.  Nearby lots fill up quickly and you may have to walk 
a few blocks.

     As usual, we will have buses to take you to Nebraska Furniture 
Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and to take you from there to 
downtown hotels or the airport later.  Those of you arriving early 
can visit the Furniture Mart any day of the week; it is open from 
10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Saturdays and from noon to 5:30 p.m. on 
Sundays.  Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open 
for shareholders and their guests from noon to 6 p.m. on Sunday, 
April 24.

     In past trips to Borsheim's, many of you have met Susan 
Jacques.  Early in 1994, Susan was made President and CEO of the 
company, having risen in 11 years from a $4-an-hour job that she 
took at the store when she was 23.  Susan will be joined at 
Borsheim's on Sunday by many of the managers of our other 
businesses, and Charlie and I will be there as well.

     On the previous evening, Saturday, April 23, there will be a 
baseball game at Rosenblatt Stadium between the Omaha Royals and 
the Nashville Sounds (which could turn out to be Michael Jordan's 
team).  As you may know, a few years ago I bought 25% of the Royals 
(a capital-allocation decision for which I will not become famous) 
and this year the league has cooperatively scheduled a home stand 
at Annual Meeting time.

     I will throw the first pitch on the 23rd, and it's a certainty 
that I will improve on last year's humiliating performance.  On 
that occasion, the catcher inexplicably called for my "sinker" and 
I dutifully delivered a pitch that barely missed my foot.  This 
year, I will go with my high hard one regardless of what the 
catcher signals, so bring your speed-timing devices.  The proxy 
statement will include information about obtaining tickets to the 
game.  I regret to report that you won't have to buy them from 
scalpers.



                                    Warren E. Buffett
March 1, 1994                       Chairman of the Board
