dominance.  We believe this was the case at the News, in very 
large part because of people such as Alfred Kirchhofer who 
preceded us.

     Once dominant, the newspaper itself, not the marketplace, 
determines just how good or how bad the paper will be.  Good or 
bad, it will prosper.  That is not true of most businesses: 
inferior quality generally produces inferior economics.  But even 
a poor newspaper is a bargain to most citizens simply because of 
its “bulletin board” value.  Other things being equal, a poor 
product will not achieve quite the level of readership achieved 
by a first-class product.  A poor product, however, will still 
remain essential to most citizens, and what commands their 
attention will command the attention of advertisers.

     Since high standards are not imposed by the marketplace, 
management must impose its own.  Our commitment to an above-
average expenditure for news represents an important quantitative 
standard.  We have confidence that Stan Lipsey and Murray Light 
will continue to apply the far-more important qualitative 
standards.  Charlie and I believe that newspapers are very 
special institutions in society.  We are proud of the News, and 
intend an even greater pride to be justified in the years ahead.
Insurance Operations
Shown below is an updated version of our usual table listing 
two key figures for the insurance industry:
Yearly Change       Combined Ratio
                                     in Premiums      after Policy-holder
                                     Written (%)           Dividends
-------------     -------------------
1972 ..............................     10.2                  96.2
1973 ..............................      8.0                  99.2
1974 ..............................      6.2                 105.4
1975 ..............................     11.0                 107.9
1976 ..............................     21.9                 102.4
1977 ..............................     19.8                  97.2
1978 ..............................     12.8                  97.5
1979 ..............................     10.3                 100.6
1980 ..............................      6.0                 103.1
1981 ..............................      3.9                 106.0
1982 ..............................      4.4                 109.7
1983 (Revised) ....................      4.5                 111.9
1984 (Estimated) ..................      8.1                 117.7
Source: Best’s Aggregates and Averages

     Best’s data reflect the experience of practically the entire 
industry, including stock, mutual, and reciprocal companies.  The 
combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses incurred 
plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums; a ratio below 
100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 100 indicates 
a loss.

     For a number of years, we have told you that an annual 
increase by the industry of about 10% per year in premiums 
written is necessary for the combined ratio to remain roughly 
unchanged.  We assumed in making that assertion that expenses as 
a percentage of premium volume would stay relatively stable and 
that losses would grow at about 10% annually because of the 
combined influence of unit volume increases, inflation, and 
judicial rulings that expand what is covered by the insurance 
policy.

     Our opinion is proving dismayingly accurate: a premium 
increase of 10% per year since 1979 would have produced an 
aggregate increase through 1984 of 61% and a combined ratio in 
1984 almost identical to the 100.6 of 1979.  Instead, the 
industry had only a 30% increase in premiums and a 1984 combined 
ratio of 117.7. Today, we continue to believe that the key index 
to the trend of underwriting profitability is the year-to-year 
percentage change in industry premium volume.

     It now appears that premium volume in 1985 will grow well 
over 10%.  Therefore, assuming that catastrophes are at a 
“normal” level, we would expect the combined ratio to begin 
easing downward toward the end of the year.  However, under our 
industrywide loss assumptions (i.e., increases of 10% annually), 
five years of 15%-per-year increases in premiums would be 
required to get the combined ratio back to 100.  This would mean 
a doubling of industry volume by 1989, an outcome that seems 
highly unlikely to us.  Instead, we expect several years of 
premium gains somewhat above the 10% level, followed by highly-
competitive pricing that generally will produce combined ratios 
in the 108-113 range.

     Our own combined ratio in 1984 was a humbling 134. (Here, as 
throughout this report, we exclude structured settlements and the 
assumption of loss reserves in reporting this ratio.  Much 
additional detail, including the effect of discontinued 
operations on the ratio, appears on pages 42-43).  This is the 
third year in a row that our underwriting performance has been 
far poorer than that of the industry.  We expect an improvement 
in the combined ratio in 1985, and also expect our improvement to 
be substantially greater than that of the industry.  Mike 
Goldberg has corrected many of the mistakes I made before he took 
over insurance operations.  Moreover, our business is 
concentrated in lines that have experienced poorer-than-average 
results during the past several years, and that circumstance has 
begun to subdue many of our competitors and even eliminate some.  
With the competition shaken, we were able during the last half of 
1984 to raise prices significantly in certain important lines 
with little loss of business.

     For some years I have told you that there could be a day 
coming when our premier financial strength would make a real 
difference in the competitive position of our insurance 
operation.  That day may have arrived.  We are almost without 
question the strongest property/casualty insurance operation in 
the country, with a capital position far superior to that of 
well-known companies of much greater size.

     Equally important, our corporate policy is to retain that 
superiority.  The buyer of insurance receives only a promise in 
exchange for his cash.  The value of that promise should be 
appraised against the possibility of adversity, not prosperity.  
At a minimum, the promise should appear able to withstand a 
prolonged combination of depressed financial markets and 
exceptionally unfavorable underwriting results.  Our insurance 
subsidiaries are both willing and able to keep their promises in 
any such environment - and not too many other companies clearly 
are.

     Our financial strength is a particular asset in the business 
of structured settlements and loss reserve assumptions that we 
reported on last year.  The claimant in a structured settlement 
and the insurance company that has reinsured loss reserves need 
to be completely confident that payments will be forthcoming for 
decades to come.  Very few companies in the property/casualty 
field can meet this test of unquestioned long-term strength. (In 
fact, only a handful of companies exists with which we will 
reinsure our own liabilities.)

     We have grown in these new lines of business: funds that we 
hold to offset assumed liabilities grew from $16.2 million to 
$30.6 million during the year.  We expect growth to continue and 
perhaps to greatly accelerate.  To support this projected growth 
we have added substantially to the capital of Columbia Insurance 
Company, our reinsurance unit specializing in structured 
settlements and loss reserve assumptions.  While these businesses 
are very competitive, returns should be satisfactory.

     At GEICO the news, as usual, is mostly good.  That company 
achieved excellent unit growth in its primary insurance business 
during 1984, and the performance of its investment portfolio 
continued to be extraordinary.  Though underwriting results 
deteriorated late in the year, they still remain far better than 
those of the industry.  Our ownership in GEICO at yearend 
amounted to 36% and thus our interest in their direct 
property/casualty volume of $885 million amounted to $320 
million, or well over double our own premium volume.

     I have reported to you in the past few years that the 
performance of GEICO’s stock has considerably exceeded that 
company’s business performance, brilliant as the latter has been.  
In those years, the carrying value of our GEICO investment on our 
balance sheet grew at a rate greater than the growth in GEICO’s 
intrinsic business value.  I warned you that over performance by 
the stock relative to the performance of the business obviously 
could not occur every year, and that in some years the stock must 
under perform the business.  In 1984 that occurred and the 
carrying value of our interest in GEICO changed hardly at all, 
while the intrinsic business value of that interest increased 
substantially.  Since 27% of Berkshire’s net worth at the 
beginning of 1984 was represented by GEICO, its static market 
value had a significant impact upon our rate of gain for the 
year.  We are not at all unhappy with such a result: we would far 
rather have the business value of GEICO increase by X during the 
year, while market value decreases, than have the intrinsic value 
increase by only 1/2 X with market value soaring.  In GEICO’s 
case, as in all of our investments, we look to business 
performance, not market performance.  If we are correct in 
expectations regarding the business, the market eventually will 
follow along.

     You, as shareholders of Berkshire, have benefited in 
enormous measure from the talents of GEICO’s Jack Byrne, Bill 
Snyder, and Lou Simpson.  In its core business - low-cost auto 
and homeowners insurance - GEICO has a major, sustainable 
competitive advantage.  That is a rare asset in business 
generally, and it’s almost non-existent in the field of financial 
services. (GEICO, itself, illustrates this point: despite the 
company’s excellent management, superior profitability has eluded 
GEICO in all endeavors other than its core business.) In a large 
industry, a competitive advantage such as GEICO’s provides the 
potential for unusual economic rewards, and Jack and Bill 
continue to exhibit great skill in realizing that potential.