that a major percentage of the $300-$350 million we will spend in 2000 on advertising, as well as large additional costs

8

we will incur for sales counselors, communications and facilities, are optional outlays we choose to make so that we
can both achieve significant growth and extend and solidify the promise of the GEICO brand in the minds of Americans.
Personally, I think these expenditures are the best investment Berkshire can make. Through its advertising,
GEICO is acquiring a direct relationship with a huge number of households that, on average, will send us $1,100 year
after year. That makes us — among all companies, selling whatever kind of product — one of the country’s leading
direct merchandisers. Also, as we build our long-term relationships with more and more families, cash is pouring in
rather than going out (no Internet economics here). Last year, as GEICO increased its customer base by 766,256, it
gained $590 million of cash from operating earnings and the increase in float.
In the past three years, we have increased our market share in personal auto insurance from 2.7% to 4.1%. But
we rightfully belong in many more households — maybe even yours. Give us a call and find out. About 40% of those
people checking our rates find that they can save money by doing business with us. The proportion is not 100% because
insurers differ in their underwriting judgments, with some giving more credit than we do to drivers who live in certain
geographic areas or work at certain occupations. Our closure rate indicates, however, that we more frequently offer the
low price than does any other national carrier selling insurance to all comers. Furthermore, in 40 states we can offer
a special discount — usually 8% — to our shareholders. Just be sure to identify yourself as a Berkshire owner so that
our sales counselor can make the appropriate adjustment.
************
It’s with sadness that I report to you that Lorimer Davidson, GEICO’s former Chairman, died last November, a
few days after his 97th birthday. For GEICO, Davy was a business giant who moved the company up to the big leagues.
For me, he was a friend, teacher and hero. I have told you of his lifelong kindnesses to me in past reports. Clearly, my
life would have developed far differently had he not been a part of it. Tony, Lou Simpson and I visited Davy in August
and marveled at his mental alertness — particularly in all matters regarding GEICO. He was the company’s number
one supporter right up to the end, and we will forever miss him.
Aviation Services
Our two aviation services companies — FlightSafety International (“FSI”) and Executive Jet Aviation (“EJA”)
— are both runaway leaders in their field. EJA, which sells and manages the fractional ownership of jet aircraft,
through its NetJets® program, is larger than its next two competitors combined. FSI trains pilots (as well as other
transportation professionals) and is five times or so the size of its nearest competitor.
Another common characteristic of the companies is that they are still managed by their founding entrepreneurs.
Al Ueltschi started FSI in 1951 with $10,000, and Rich Santulli invented the fractional-ownership industry in 1986.
These men are both remarkable managers who have no financial need to work but thrive on helping their companies
grow and excel.
Though these two businesses have leadership positions that are similar, they differ in their economic
characteristics. FSI must lay out huge amounts of capital. A single flight simulator can cost as much as $15 million
— and we have 222. Only one person at a time, furthermore, can be trained in a simulator, which means that the capital
investment per dollar of revenue at FSI is exceptionally high. Operating margins must therefore also be high, if we are
to earn a reasonable return on capital. Last year we made capital expenditures of $215 million at FSI and FlightSafety
Boeing, its 50%-owned affiliate.
At EJA, in contrast, the customer owns the equipment, though we, of course, must invest in a core fleet of our own
planes to ensure outstanding service. For example, the Sunday after Thanksgiving, EJA’s busiest day of the year, strains
our resources since fractions of 169 planes are owned by 1,412 customers, many of whom are bent on flying home
between 3 and 6 p.m. On that day, and certain others, we need a supply of company-owned aircraft to make sure all
parties get where they want, when they want.
Still, most of the planes we fly are owned by customers, which means that modest pre-tax margins in this business
can produce good returns on equity. Currently, our customers own planes worth over $2 billion, and in addition we have
$4.2 billion of planes on order. Indeed, the limiting factor in our business right now is the availability of planes. We
9

now are taking delivery of about 8% of all business jets manufactured in the world, and we wish we could get a bigger
share than that. Though EJA was supply-constrained in 1999, its recurring revenues — monthly management fees plus
hourly flight fees — increased 46%.
The fractional-ownership industry is still in its infancy. EJA is now building critical mass in Europe, and over
time we will expand around the world. Doing that will be expensive — very expensive — but we will spend what it
takes. Scale is vital to both us and our customers: The company with the most planes in the air worldwide will be able
to offer its customers the best service. “Buy a fraction, get a fleet” has real meaning at EJA.
EJA enjoys another important advantage in that its two largest competitors are both subsidiaries of aircraft
manufacturers and sell only the aircraft their parents make. Though these are fine planes, these competitors are severely
limited in the cabin styles and mission capabilities they can offer. EJA, in contrast, offers a wide array of planes from
five suppliers. Consequently, we can give the customer whatever he needs to buy — rather than his getting what the
competitor’s parent needs to sell.
Last year in this report, I described my family’s delight with the one-quarter (200 flight hours annually) of a
Hawker 1000 that we had owned since 1995. I got so pumped up by my own prose that shortly thereafter I signed up
for one-sixteenth of a Cessna V Ultra as well. Now my annual outlays at EJA and Borsheim’s, combined, total ten times
my salary. Think of this as a rough guideline for your own expenditures with us.
During the past year, two of Berkshire’s outside directors have also signed on with EJA. (Maybe we’re paying
them too much.) You should be aware that they and I are charged exactly the same price for planes and service as is
any other customer: EJA follows a “most favored nations” policy, with no one getting a special deal.
And now, brace yourself. Last year, EJA passed the ultimate test: Charlie signed up. No other endorsement could
speak more eloquently to the value of the EJA service. Give us a call at 1-800-848-6436 and ask for our “white paper”
on fractional ownership.
Acquisitions of 1999
At both GEICO and Executive Jet, our best source of new customers is the happy ones we already have. Indeed,
about 65% of our new owners of aircraft come as referrals from current owners who have fallen in love with the service.
Our acquisitions usually develop in the same way. At other companies, executives may devote themselves to
pursuing acquisition possibilities with investment bankers, utilizing an auction process that has become standardized.
In this exercise the bankers prepare a “book” that makes me think of the Superman comics of my youth. In the Wall
Street version, a formerly mild-mannered company emerges from the investment banker’s phone booth able to leap over
competitors in a single bound and with earnings moving faster than a speeding bullet. Titillated by the book’s
description of the acquiree’s powers, acquisition-hungry CEOs — Lois Lanes all, beneath their cool exteriors —
promptly swoon.
What’s particularly entertaining in these books is the precision with which earnings are projected for many years
ahead. If you ask the author-banker, however, what his own firm will earn next month, he will go into a protective
crouch and tell you that business and markets are far too uncertain for him to venture a forecast.
Here’s one story I can’t resist relating: In 1985, a major investment banking house undertook to sell Scott Fetzer,
offering it widely — but with no success. Upon reading of this strikeout, I wrote Ralph Schey, then and now Scott
Fetzer’s CEO, expressing an interest in buying the business. I had never met Ralph, but within a week we had a deal.
Unfortunately, Scott Fetzer’s letter of engagement with the banking firm provided it a $2.5 million fee upon sale, even
if it had nothing to do with finding the buyer. I guess the lead banker felt he should do something for his payment, so