---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report (HTML)
year: 1995
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/1995ar/1995ar.html
extracted_from: char 15456 - 91479
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Our gain in net worth during 1995 was $5.3 billion, or 45.0%.  Per-share book value grew by a little less, 43.1%, because
we paid stock for two acquisitions, increasing our shares outstanding by 1.3%.  Over the last 31 years (that is, since present
management took over) per-share book value has grown from $19 to $14,426, or at a rate of 23.6% compounded annually.

     There's no reason to do handsprings over 1995's gains.  This was a year in which any fool could make a bundle in the
stock market.  And we did.  To paraphrase President Kennedy, a rising tide lifts all yachts.

     Putting aside the financial results, there was plenty of good news at Berkshire last year:  We negotiated three acquisitions
of exactly the type we desire.  Two of these, Helzberg's Diamond Shops and R.C. Willey Home Furnishings, are included in
our 1995 financial statements, while our largest transaction, the purchase of GEICO, closed immediately after the end of the year. 
(I'll tell you more about all three acquisitions later in the report.)

     These new subsidiaries roughly double our revenues.  Even so, the acquisitions neither materially increased our shares
outstanding nor our debt.  And, though these three operations employ over 11,000 people, our headquarters staff grew only from
11 to 12.  (No sense going crazy.)

     Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and my partner, and I want to build a collection of companies   both wholly-
and partly-owned   that have excellent economic characteristics and that are run by outstanding managers.  Our favorite acquisition
is the negotiated transaction that allows us to purchase 100% of such a business at a fair price.  But we are almost as happy
when the stock market offers us the chance to buy a modest percentage of an outstanding business at a pro-rata price well below
what it would take to buy 100%.  This double-barrelled approach   purchases of entire businesses through negotiation or purchases
of part-interests through the stock market   gives us an important advantage over capital-allocators who stick to a single course. 
Woody Allen once explained why eclecticism works:  &quot;The real advantage of being bisexual is that it doubles your chances for
a date on Saturday night.&quot;

     Over the years, we've been Woody-like in our thinking, attempting to increase our marketable investments in wonderful
businesses, while simultaneously trying to buy similar businesses in their entirety.  The following table illustrates our progress
on both fronts.  In the tabulation, we show the marketable securities owned per share of Berkshire at ten-year intervals.  A
second column lists our per-share operating earnings (before taxes and purchase-price adjustments but after interest and corporate
overhead) from all other activities.  In other words, the second column shows what we earned excluding the dividends, interest
and capital gains that we realized from investments.  Purchase-price accounting adjustments are ignored for reasons we have
explained at length in previous reports and which, as an act of mercy, we won't repeat.  (We'll be glad to send masochists the
earlier explanations, however.)

                                                        Pre-tax Earnings Per Share
                                Marketable Securities   Excluding All Income from
    Year                               Per Share                 Investments        
    ----                        ---------------------   --------------------------
    1965 ..........................   $      4                    $  4.08 
    1975 ..........................        159                      (6.48)
    1985 ..........................      2,443                      18.86 
    1995 ..........................     22,088                     258.20 

    Yearly Growth Rate: 1965-95....      33.4%                      14.7% 

     These results have not sprung from some master plan that we concocted in 1965.  In a general way, we knew then what
we hoped to accomplish but had no idea what specific opportunities might make it possible.  Today we remain similarly
unstructured:  Over time, we expect to improve the figures in both columns but have no road map to tell us how that will come
about.

     We proceed with two advantages:  First, our operating managers are outstanding and, in most cases, have an unusually
strong attachment to Berkshire.  Second, Charlie and I have had considerable experience in allocating capital and try to go at
that job rationally and objectively.  The giant disadvantage we face is size:  In the early years, we needed only good ideas, but
now we need good big ideas.  Unfortunately, the difficulty of finding these grows in direct proportion to our financial success,
a problem that increasingly erodes our strengths.

     I will have more to say about Berkshire's prospects later in this report, when I discuss our proposed recapitalization.

Acquisitions  

     It may seem strange that we exult over a year in which we made three acquisitions, given that we have regularly used these
pages to question the acquisition activities of most managers.  Rest assured, Charlie and I haven't lost our skepticism:  We
believe most deals do damage to the shareholders of the acquiring company.  Too often, the words from HMS Pinafore apply: 
&quot;Things are seldom what they seem, skim milk masquerades as cream.&quot;  Specifically, sellers and their representatives invariably
present financial projections having more entertainment value than educational value.  In the production of rosy scenarios, Wall
Street can hold its own against Washington.

     In any case, why potential buyers even look at projections prepared by sellers baffles me.  Charlie and I never give them
a glance, but instead keep in mind the story of the man with an ailing horse.  Visiting the vet, he said:  &quot;Can you help me? 
Sometimes my horse walks just fine and sometimes he limps.&quot;  The vet's reply was pointed:  &quot;No problem   when he's walking
fine, sell him.&quot;  In the world of mergers and acquisitions, that horse would be peddled as Secretariat.

     At Berkshire, we have all the difficulties in perceiving the future that other acquisition-minded companies do.  Like they also,
we face the inherent problem that the seller of a business practically always knows far more about it than the buyer and also picks
the time of sale   a time when the business is likely to be walking &quot;just fine.&quot;

     Even so, we do have a few advantages, perhaps the greatest being that we don't have a strategic plan.  Thus we feel no
need to proceed in an ordained direction (a course leading almost invariably to silly purchase prices) but can instead simply decide
what makes sense for our owners.  In doing that, we always mentally compare any move we are contemplating with dozens of
other opportunities open to us, including the purchase of small pieces of the best businesses in the world via the stock market. 
Our practice of making this comparison   acquisitions against passive investments   is a discipline that managers focused simply
on expansion seldom use.

     Talking to Time Magazine a few years back, Peter Drucker got to the heart of things:  &quot;I will tell you a secret: Dealmaking
beats working.  Dealmaking is exciting and fun, and working is grubby.  Running anything is primarily an enormous amount
of grubby detail work . . . dealmaking is romantic, sexy.  That's why you have deals that make no sense.&quot;

     In making acquisitions, we have a further advantage:  As payment, we can offer sellers a stock backed by an extraordinary
collection of outstanding businesses.  An individual or a family wishing to dispose of a single fine business, but also wishing
to defer personal taxes indefinitely, is apt to find Berkshire stock a particularly comfortable holding.  I believe, in fact, that this
calculus played an important part in the two acquisitions for which we paid shares in 1995.

     Beyond that, sellers sometimes care about placing their companies in a corporate home that will both endure and provide
pleasant, productive working conditions for their managers.  Here again, Berkshire offers something special.  Our managers
operate with extraordinary autonomy.  Additionally, our ownership structure enables sellers to know that when I say we are
buying to keep, the promise means something.  For our part, we like dealing with owners who care what happens to their
companies and people.  A buyer is likely to find fewer unpleasant surprises dealing with that type of seller than with one simply
auctioning off his business.

     In addition to the foregoing being an explanation of our acquisition style, it is, of course, a not-so-subtle sales pitch.  If
you own or represent a business earning $25 million or more before tax, and it fits the criteria listed on page 23, just give me
a call.  Our discussion will be confidential.  And if you aren't interested now, file our proposition in the back of your mind:  We
are never going to lose our appetite for buying companies with good economics and excellent management.

     Concluding this little dissertation on acquisitions, I can't resist repeating a tale told me last year by a corporate executive. 
The business he grew up in was a fine one, with a long-time record of leadership in its industry.  Its main product, however,
was distressingly glamorless.  So several decades ago, the company hired a management consultant who   naturally   advised
diversification, the then-current fad.  (&quot;Focus&quot; was not yet in style.)  Before long, the company acquired a number of businesses,
each after the consulting firm had gone through a long   and expensive   acquisition study.  And the outcome?  Said the