writers will be tested, and Berkshire has no peer in this respect.

Since truly major catastrophes
are rare occurrences, our super-cat business can be expected to show large
profits in most years -- and to record a huge loss occasionally. In other
words, the attractiveness of our super-cat business will take a great many
years to measure. What you must understand, however, is that a truly
terrible year in the super-cat business is not a possibility -- it's a
certainty. The only question is when it will come.

Last year, we were very lucky in
our super-cat operation. The world suffered no catastrophes that caused
huge amounts of insured damage, so virtually all premiums that we received
dropped to the bottom line. This pleasant result has a dark side, however.
Many investors who are "innocents" -- meaning that they rely
on representations of salespeople rather than on underwriting knowledge
of their own -- have come into the reinsurance business by means of purchasing
pieces of paper that are called "catastrophe bonds." The second
word in this term, though, is an Orwellian misnomer: A true bond obliges
the issuer to pay; these bonds, in effect, are contracts that lay a provisional
promise to pay on the purchaser .

This convoluted arrangement came
into being because the promoters of the contracts wished to circumvent
laws that prohibit the writing of insurance by entities that haven't been
licensed by the state. A side benefit for the promoters is that calling
the insurance contract a "bond" may also cause unsophisticated
buyers to assume that these instruments involve far less risk than is actually
the case.

Truly outsized risks will exist
in these contracts if they are not properly priced. A pernicious aspect
of catastrophe insurance, however, makes it likely that mispricing, even
of a severe variety, will not be discovered for a very long time. Consider,
for example, the odds of throwing a 12 with a pair of dice -- 1 out of
36. Now assume that the dice will be thrown once a year; that you, the
"bond-buyer," agree to pay $50 million if a 12 appears; and that
for "insuring" this risk you take in an annual "premium"
of $1 million. That would mean you had significantly underpriced the risk.
Nevertheless, you could go along for years thinking you were making money
-- indeed, easy money. There is actually a 75.4% probability that you would
go for a decade without paying out a dime. Eventually, however, you would
go broke.

In this dice example, the odds
are easy to figure. Calculations involving monster hurricanes and earthquakes
are necessarily much fuzzier, and the best we can do at Berkshire is to
estimate a range of probabilities for such events. The lack of precise
data, coupled with the rarity of such catastrophes, plays into the hands
of promoters, who typically employ an "expert" to advise the
potential bond-buyer about the probability of losses. The expert puts no
money on the table. Instead, he receives an up-front payment that is forever
his no matter how inaccurate his predictions. Surprise: When the stakes
are high, an expert can invariably be found who will affirm -- to return
to our example -- that the chance of rolling a 12 is not 1 in 36, but more
like 1 in 100. (In fairness, we should add that the expert will probably
believe that his odds are correct, a fact that makes him less reprehensible
-- but more dangerous.)

The influx of "investor"
money into catastrophe bonds -- which may well live up to their name --
has caused super-cat prices to deteriorate materially. Therefore, we will
write less business in 1998. We have some large multi-year contracts in
force, however, that will mitigate the drop. The largest of these are two
policies that we described in last year's report -- one covering hurricanes
in Florida and the other, signed with the California Earthquake Authority,
covering earthquakes in that state. Our "worst-case" loss remains
about $600 million after-tax, the maximum we could lose under the CEA policy.
Though this loss potential may sound large, it is only about 1% of Berkshire's
market value. Indeed, if we could get appropriate prices, we would be willing
to significantly increase our "worst-case" exposure.

Our super-cat business was developed
from scratch by Ajit Jain, who has contributed to Berkshire's success in
a variety of other ways as well. Ajit possesses both the discipline to
walk away from business that is inadequately priced and the imagination
to then find other opportunities. Quite simply, he is one of Berkshire's
major assets. Ajit would have been a star in whatever career he chose;
fortunately for us, he enjoys insurance.

Insurance -- GEICO (1-800-555-2756) and Other Primary Operations

Last year I wrote about GEICO's
Tony Nicely and his terrific management skills. If I had known then what
he had in store for us in 1997, I would have searched for still greater
superlatives. Tony, now 54, has been with GEICO for 36 years and last year
was his best. As CEO, he has transmitted vision, energy and enthusiasm
to all members of the GEICO family -- raising their sights from what has been achieved to what can be achieved.

We measure GEICO's performance
by first, the net increase in its voluntary auto policies (that is, not
including policies assigned us by the state) and, second, the profitability
of "seasoned" auto business, meaning policies that have been
with us for more than a year and are thus past the period in which acquisition
costs cause them to be money-losers. In 1996, in-force business grew 10%,
and I told you how pleased I was, since that rate was well above anything
we had seen in two decades. Then, in 1997, growth jumped to 16%.

Below are the new business and
in-force figures for the last five years:

Of course, any insurer can grow
rapidly if it gets careless about underwriting. GEICO's underwriting profit
for the year, though, was 8.1% of premiums, far above its average. Indeed,
that percentage was higher than we wish it to be: Our goal is to pass on
most of the benefits of our low-cost operation to our customers, holding
ourselves to about 4% in underwriting profit. With that in mind, we reduced
our average rates a bit during 1997 and may well cut them again this year.
Our rate changes varied, of course, depending on the policyholder and where
he lives; we strive to charge a rate that properly reflects the loss expectancy
of each driver.

GEICO is not the only auto insurer
obtaining favorable results these days. Last year, the industry recorded
profits that were far better than it anticipated or can sustain. Intensified
competition will soon squeeze margins very significantly. But this is a
development we welcome: Long term, a tough market helps the low-cost operator,
which is what we are and intend to remain.

Last year I told you about the
record 16.9% profit-sharing contribution that GEICO's associates had earned
and explained that two simple variables set the amount: policy growth and
profitability of seasoned business. I further explained that 1996's performance
was so extraordinary that we had to enlarge the chart delineating the possible
payouts. The new configuration didn't make it through 1997: We enlarged
the chart's boundaries again and awarded our 10,500 associates a profit-sharing
contribution amounting to 26.9% of their base compensation, or $71 million.
In addition, the same two variables -- policy growth and profitability
of seasoned business -- determined the cash bonuses that we paid to dozens
of top executives, starting with Tony.

At GEICO, we are paying in a way
that makes sense for both our owners and our managers. We distribute merit
badges, not lottery tickets: In none of Berkshire's subsidiaries do we
relate compensation to our stock price, which our associates cannot affect
in any meaningful way. Instead, we tie bonuses to each unit's business
performance, which is the direct product of the unit's people. When that
performance is terrific -- as it has been at GEICO -- there is nothing
Charlie and I enjoy more than writing a big check.

GEICO's underwriting profitability
will probably fall in 1998, but the company's growth could accelerate.
We're planning to step on the gas: GEICO's marketing expenditures this
year will top $100 million, up 50% from 1997. Our market share today is
only 3%, a level of penetration that should increase dramatically in the
next decade. The auto insurance industry is huge -- it does about $115
billion of volume annually -- and there are tens of millions of drivers
who would save substantial money by switching to us.

* * * * * * * * * * * *

In the 1995 report, I described
the enormous debt that you and I owe to Lorimer Davidson. On a Saturday
early in 1951, he patiently explained the ins and outs of both GEICO and
its industry to me -- a 20-year-old stranger who'd arrived at GEICO's headquarters