to finance their purchases. If an owner defaults, however, his or her asset does not disappear or lose its
usefulness. Rather, ownership customarily passes to an American lending institution that then disposes of it to an
American buyer. Our nation’s wealth remains intact. As Gertrude Stein put it, “Money is always there, but the
pockets change.”
Above all, it’s our market system – an economic traffic cop ably directing capital, brains and labor –
that has created America’s abundance. This system has also been the primary factor in allocating rewards.
Governmental redirection, through federal, state and local taxation, has in addition determined the distribution of
a significant portion of the bounty.
America has, for example, decided that those citizens in their productive years should help both the old
and the young. Such forms of aid – sometimes enshrined as “entitlements” – are generally thought of as applying
to the aged. But don’t forget that four million American babies are born each year with an entitlement to a public
education. That societal commitment, largely financed at the local level, costs about $150,000 per baby. The
annual cost totals more than $600 billion, which is about 3 1⁄ 2% of GDP.
However our wealth may be divided, the mind-boggling amounts you see around you belong almost
exclusively to Americans. Foreigners, of course, own or have claims on a modest portion of our wealth. Those
holdings, however, are of little importance to our national balance sheet: Our citizens own assets abroad that are
roughly comparable in value.
Early Americans, we should emphasize, were neither smarter nor more hard working than those people
who toiled century after century before them. But those venturesome pioneers crafted a system that unleashed
human potential, and their successors built upon it.
This economic creation will deliver increasing wealth to our progeny far into the future. Yes, the
build-up of wealth will be interrupted for short periods from time to time. It will not, however, be stopped. I’ll
repeat what I’ve both said in the past and expect to say in future years: Babies born in America today are the
luckiest crop in history.
************
America’s economic achievements have led to staggering profits for stockholders. During the 20th
century the Dow-Jones Industrials advanced from 66 to 11,497, a 17,320% capital gain that was materially
boosted by steadily increasing dividends. The trend continues: By yearend 2016, the index had advanced a
further 72%, to 19,763.
American business – and consequently a basket of stocks – is virtually certain to be worth far more in
the years ahead. Innovation, productivity gains, entrepreneurial spirit and an abundance of capital will see to that.
Ever-present naysayers may prosper by marketing their gloomy forecasts. But heaven help them if they act on the
nonsense they peddle.
Many companies, of course, will fall behind, and some will fail. Winnowing of that sort is a product of
market dynamism. Moreover, the years ahead will occasionally deliver major market declines – even panics –
that will affect virtually all stocks. No one can tell you when these traumas will occur – not me, not Charlie, not
economists, not the media. Meg McConnell of the New York Fed aptly described the reality of panics: “We
spend a lot of time looking for systemic risk; in truth, however, it tends to find us.”
During such scary periods, you should never forget two things: First, widespread fear is your friend as
an investor, because it serves up bargain purchases. Second, personal fear is your enemy. It will also be
unwarranted. Investors who avoid high and unnecessary costs and simply sit for an extended period with a
collection of large, conservatively-financed American businesses will almost certainly do well.
As for Berkshire, our size precludes a brilliant result: Prospective returns fall as assets increase.
Nonetheless, Berkshire’s collection of good businesses, along with the company’s impregnable financial strength
and owner-oriented culture, should deliver decent results. We won’t be satisfied with less.
6

Share Repurchases
In the investment world, discussions about share repurchases often become heated. But I’d suggest that
participants in this debate take a deep breath: Assessing the desirability of repurchases isn’t that complicated.
From the standpoint of exiting shareholders, repurchases are always a plus. Though the day-to-day impact of
these purchases is usually minuscule, it’s always better for a seller to have an additional buyer in the market.
For continuing shareholders, however, repurchases only make sense if the shares are bought at a price
below intrinsic value. When that rule is followed, the remaining shares experience an immediate gain in intrinsic
value. Consider a simple analogy: If there are three equal partners in a business worth $3,000 and one is bought
out by the partnership for $900, each of the remaining partners realizes an immediate gain of $50. If the exiting
partner is paid $1,100, however, the continuing partners each suffer a loss of $50. The same math applies with
corporations and their shareholders. Ergo, the question of whether a repurchase action is value-enhancing or
value-destroying for continuing shareholders is entirely purchase-price dependent.
It is puzzling, therefore, that corporate repurchase announcements almost never refer to a price above
which repurchases will be eschewed. That certainly wouldn’t be the case if a management was buying an outside
business. There, price would always factor into a buy-or-pass decision.
When CEOs or boards are buying a small part of their own company, though, they all too often seem
oblivious to price. Would they behave similarly if they were managing a private company with just a few owners
and were evaluating the wisdom of buying out one of them? Of course not.
It is important to remember that there are two occasions in which repurchases should not take place,
even if the company’s shares are underpriced. One is when a business both needs all its available money to
protect or expand its own operations and is also uncomfortable adding further debt. Here, the internal need for
funds should take priority. This exception assumes, of course, that the business has a decent future awaiting it
after the needed expenditures are made.
The second exception, less common, materializes when a business acquisition (or some other investment
opportunity) offers far greater value than do the undervalued shares of the potential repurchaser. Long ago,
Berkshire itself often had to choose between these alternatives. At our present size, the issue is far less likely to
arise.
My suggestion: Before even discussing repurchases, a CEO and his or her Board should stand, join
hands and in unison declare, “What is smart at one price is stupid at another.”
************
To recap Berkshire’s own repurchase policy: I am authorized to buy large amounts of Berkshire shares at
120% or less of book value because our Board has concluded that purchases at that level clearly bring an instant and
material benefit to continuing shareholders. By our estimate, a 120%-of-book price is a significant discount to
Berkshire’s intrinsic value, a spread that is appropriate because calculations of intrinsic value can’t be precise.
The authorization given me does not mean that we will “prop” our stock’s price at the 120% ratio. If
that level is reached, we will instead attempt to blend a desire to make meaningful purchases at a value-creating
price with a related goal of not over-influencing the market.
To date, repurchasing our shares has proved hard to do. That may well be because we have been clear in
describing our repurchase policy and thereby have signaled our view that Berkshire’s intrinsic value is
significantly higher than 120% of book value. If so, that’s fine. Charlie and I prefer to see Berkshire shares sell in
a fairly narrow range around intrinsic value, neither wishing them to sell at an unwarranted high price – it’s no
fun having owners who are disappointed with their purchases – nor one too low. Furthermore, our buying out
“partners” at a discount is not a particularly gratifying way of making money. Still, market circumstances could
create a situation in which repurchases would benefit both continuing and exiting shareholders. If so, we will be
ready to act.
7

One final observation for this section: As the subject of repurchases has come to a boil, some people
have come close to calling them un-American – characterizing them as corporate misdeeds that divert funds
needed for productive endeavors. That simply isn’t the case: Both American corporations and private investors
are today awash in funds looking to be sensibly deployed. I’m not aware of any enticing project that in recent
years has died for lack of capital. (Call us if you have a candidate.)
Insurance
Let’s now look at Berkshire’s various businesses, starting with our most important sector, insurance.
The property/casualty (“P/C”) branch of that industry has been the engine that has propelled our growth since
1967, the year we acquired National Indemnity and its sister company, National Fire & Marine, for $8.6 million.
Today, National Indemnity is the largest property/casualty company in the world as measured by net worth.
One reason we were attracted to the P/C business was its financial characteristics: P/C insurers receive