some investment professionals, just as some amateurs, will be lucky over short periods. If 1,000 managers make
a market prediction at the beginning of a year, it’s very likely that the calls of at least one will be correct for nine
consecutive years. Of course, 1,000 monkeys would be just as likely to produce a seemingly all-wise prophet.
But there would remain a difference: The lucky monkey would not find people standing in line to invest with
him.
Finally, there are three connected realities that cause investing success to breed failure. First, a good
record quickly attracts a torrent of money. Second, huge sums invariably act as an anchor on investment
performance: What is easy with millions, struggles with billions (sob!). Third, most managers will nevertheless
seek new money because of their personal equation – namely, the more funds they have under management, the
more their fees.
These three points are hardly new ground for me: In January 1966, when I was managing $44 million, I
wrote my limited partners: “I feel substantially greater size is more likely to harm future results than to help
them. This might not be true for my own personal results, but it is likely to be true for your results. Therefore, . . .
I intend to admit no additional partners to BPL. I have notified Susie that if we have any more children, it is up to
her to find some other partnership for them.”
The bottom line: When trillions of dollars are managed by Wall Streeters charging high fees, it will
usually be the managers who reap outsized profits, not the clients. Both large and small investors should stick
with low-cost index funds.
************
If a statue is ever erected to honor the person who has done the most for American investors, the handsdown choice should be Jack Bogle. For decades, Jack has urged investors to invest in ultra-low-cost index funds.
In his crusade, he amassed only a tiny percentage of the wealth that has typically flowed to managers who have
promised their investors large rewards while delivering them nothing – or, as in our bet, less than nothing – of
added value.
In his early years, Jack was frequently mocked by the investment-management industry. Today,
however, he has the satisfaction of knowing that he helped millions of investors realize far better returns on their
savings than they otherwise would have earned. He is a hero to them and to me.
************
Over the years, I’ve often been asked for investment advice, and in the process of answering I’ve
learned a good deal about human behavior. My regular recommendation has been a low-cost S&P 500 index
fund. To their credit, my friends who possess only modest means have usually followed my suggestion.
24

I believe, however, that none of the mega-rich individuals, institutions or pension funds has followed
that same advice when I’ve given it to them. Instead, these investors politely thank me for my thoughts and
depart to listen to the siren song of a high-fee manager or, in the case of many institutions, to seek out another
breed of hyper-helper called a consultant.
That professional, however, faces a problem. Can you imagine an investment consultant telling clients,
year after year, to keep adding to an index fund replicating the S&P 500? That would be career suicide. Large
fees flow to these hyper-helpers, however, if they recommend small managerial shifts every year or so. That
advice is often delivered in esoteric gibberish that explains why fashionable investment “styles” or current
economic trends make the shift appropriate.
The wealthy are accustomed to feeling that it is their lot in life to get the best food, schooling,
entertainment, housing, plastic surgery, sports ticket, you name it. Their money, they feel, should buy them
something superior compared to what the masses receive.
In many aspects of life, indeed, wealth does command top-grade products or services. For that reason,
the financial “elites” – wealthy individuals, pension funds, college endowments and the like – have great trouble
meekly signing up for a financial product or service that is available as well to people investing only a few
thousand dollars. This reluctance of the rich normally prevails even though the product at issue is –on an
expectancy basis – clearly the best choice. My calculation, admittedly very rough, is that the search by the elite
for superior investment advice has caused it, in aggregate, to waste more than $100 billion over the past decade.
Figure it out: Even a 1% fee on a few trillion dollars adds up. Of course, not every investor who put money in
hedge funds ten years ago lagged S&P returns. But I believe my calculation of the aggregate shortfall is
conservative.
Much of the financial damage befell pension funds for public employees. Many of these funds are
woefully underfunded, in part because they have suffered a double whammy: poor investment performance
accompanied by huge fees. The resulting shortfalls in their assets will for decades have to be made up by local
taxpayers.
Human behavior won’t change. Wealthy individuals, pension funds, endowments and the like will
continue to feel they deserve something “extra” in investment advice. Those advisors who cleverly play to this
expectation will get very rich. This year the magic potion may be hedge funds, next year something else. The
likely result from this parade of promises is predicted in an adage: “When a person with money meets a person
with experience, the one with experience ends up with the money and the one with money leaves with
experience.”
Long ago, a brother-in-law of mine, Homer Rogers, was a commission agent working in the Omaha
stockyards. I asked him how he induced a farmer or rancher to hire him to handle the sale of their hogs or cattle
to the buyers from the big four packers (Swift, Cudahy, Wilson and Armour). After all, hogs were hogs and the
buyers were experts who knew to the penny how much any animal was worth. How then, I asked Homer, could
any sales agent get a better result than any other?
Homer gave me a pitying look and said: “Warren, it’s not how you sell ‘em, it’s how you tell ‘em.”
What worked in the stockyards continues to work in Wall Street.
************
And, finally, let me offer an olive branch to Wall Streeters, many of them good friends of mine.
Berkshire loves to pay fees – even outrageous fees – to investment bankers who bring us acquisitions. Moreover,
we have paid substantial sums for over-performance to our two in-house investment managers – and we hope to
make even larger payments to them in the future.
To get biblical (Ephesians 3:18), I know the height and the depth and the length and the breadth of the
energy flowing from that simple four-letter word – fees – when it is spoken to Wall Street. And when that energy
delivers value to Berkshire, I will cheerfully write a big check.

25

The Annual Meeting
Last year we partnered with Yahoo to air the first-ever webcast of our annual meeting. Thanks to Andy
Serwer and his Yahoo crew, the production was a success in all respects, registering 1.1 million unique visits in
real-time viewing and 11.5 million more in replays (many of those, to be sure, called up by viewers interested in
only certain segments of the webcast).
Berkshire’s thank-you mail for initiating the webcast included many notes from three constituencies: the
elderly who find travel difficult; the thrifty who find it expensive to travel to Omaha; and those who cannot
attend a Saturday meeting for religious reasons.
The webcast cut attendance at last year’s meeting to about 37,000 people (we can’t get a precise count),
which was down about 10%. Nevertheless, both Berkshire’s subsidiaries and Omaha hotels and restaurants
racked up huge sales. Nebraska Furniture Mart’s sales broke their 2015 record volume by 3%, with the Omaha
store recording one-week volume of $45.5 million.
Our Berkshire exhibitors at CenturyLink were open from noon until 5 p.m. on Friday and drew a crowd
of 12,000 bargain-hunting shareholders. We will repeat those Friday shopping hours this year on May 5th. Bring
money.
The annual meeting falls on May 6th and will again be webcast by Yahoo, whose web address is
https://finance.yahoo.com/brklivestream. The webcast will go live at 9 a.m. Central Daylight Time. Yahoo will
interview directors, managers, stockholders and celebrities before the meeting and during the lunch break. Both
those interviews and meeting will be translated simultaneously into Mandarin.
For those attending the meeting in person, the doors at the CenturyLink will open at 7:00 a.m. on
Saturday to facilitate shopping prior to our shareholder movie, which begins at 8:30. The question-and-answer
period will start at 9:30 and run until 3:30, with a one-hour lunch break at noon. Finally, at 3:45 we will begin the
formal shareholder meeting. It will run an hour or so. That is somewhat longer than usual because three proxy
items are to be presented by their proponents, who will be given a reasonable amount of time to state their case.