# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1985

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
You may remember the wildly upbeat message of last year’s 
report: nothing much was in the works but our experience had been 
that something big popped up occasionally.  This carefully-
crafted corporate strategy paid off in 1985.  Later sections of 
this report discuss (a) our purchase of a major position in 
Capital Cities/ABC, (b) our acquisition of Scott & Fetzer, (c) 
our entry into a large, extended term participation in the 
insurance business of Fireman’s Fund, and (d) our sale of our 
stock in General Foods.

     Our gain in net worth during the year was $613.6 million, or 
48.2%. It is fitting that the visit of Halley’s Comet coincided 
with this percentage gain: neither will be seen again in my 
lifetime.  Our gain in per-share book value over the last twenty-
one years (that is, since present management took over) has been 
from $19.46 to $1643.71, or 23.2% compounded annually, another 
percentage that will not be repeated.

    Two factors make anything approaching this rate of gain 
unachievable in the future.  One factor probably transitory - is 
a stock market that offers very little opportunity compared to 
the markets that prevailed throughout much of the 1964-1984 
period.  Today we cannot find significantly-undervalued equities 
to purchase for our insurance company portfolios.  The current 
situation is 180 degrees removed from that existing about a 
decade ago, when the only question was which bargain to choose.

     This change in the market also has negative implications for 
our present portfolio.  In our 1974 annual report I could say:  
“We consider several of our major holdings to have great 
potential for significantly increased values in future years.” I 
can’t say that now.  It’s true that our insurance companies 
currently hold major positions in companies with exceptional 
underlying economics and outstanding managements, just as they 
did in 1974.  But current market prices generously appraise these 
attributes, whereas they were ignored in 1974.  Today’s 
valuations mean that our insurance companies have no chance for 
future portfolio gains on the scale of those achieved in the 
past.

     The second negative factor, far more telling, is our size.  
Our equity capital is more than twenty times what it was only ten 
years ago.  And an iron law of business is that growth eventually 
dampens exceptional economics. just look at the records of high-
return companies once they have amassed even $1 billion of equity 
capital.  None that I know of has managed subsequently, over a 
ten-year period, to keep on earning 20% or more on equity while 
reinvesting all or substantially all of its earnings.  Instead, 
to sustain their high returns, such companies have needed to shed 
a lot of capital by way of either dividends or repurchases of 
stock.  Their shareholders would have been far better off if all 
earnings could have been reinvested at the fat returns earned by 
these exceptional businesses.  But the companies simply couldn’t 
turn up enough high-return opportunities to make that possible.

     Their problem is our problem.  Last year I told you that we 
needed profits of $3.9 billion over the ten years then coming up 
to earn 15% annually.  The comparable figure for the ten years 
now ahead is $5.7 billion, a 48% increase that corresponds - as 
it must mathematically - to the growth in our capital base during 
1985. (Here’s a little perspective: leaving aside oil companies, 
only about 15 U.S. businesses have managed to earn over $5.7 
billion during the past ten years.)

     Charlie Munger, my partner in managing Berkshire, and I are 
reasonably optimistic about Berkshire’s ability to earn returns 
superior to those earned by corporate America generally, and you 
will benefit from the company’s retention of all earnings as long 
as those returns are forthcoming.  We have several things going 
for us: (1) we don’t have to worry about quarterly or annual 
figures but, instead, can focus on whatever actions will maximize 
long-term value; (2) we can expand the business into any areas 
that make sense - our scope is not circumscribed by history, 
structure, or concept; and (3) we love our work.  All of these 
help.  Even so, we will also need a full measure of good fortune 
to average our hoped-for 15% - far more good fortune than was 
required for our past 23.2%.

     We need to mention one further item in the investment 
equation that could affect recent purchasers of our stock.  
Historically, Berkshire shares have sold modestly below intrinsic 
business value.  With the price there, purchasers could be 
certain (as long as they did not experience a widening of this 
discount) that their personal investment experience would at 
least equal the financial experience of the business.  But 
recently the discount has disappeared, and occasionally a modest 
premium has prevailed.

     The elimination of the discount means that Berkshire’s 
market value increased even faster than business value (which, 
itself, grew at a pleasing pace).  That was good news for any 
owner holding while that move took place, but it is bad news for 
the new or prospective owner.  If the financial experience of new 
owners of Berkshire is merely to match the future financial 
experience of the company, any premium of market value over 
intrinsic business value that they pay must be maintained.

     Management cannot determine market prices, although it can, 
by its disclosures and policies, encourage rational behavior by 
market participants.  My own preference, as perhaps you’d guess, 
is for a market price that consistently approximates business 
value.  Given that relationship, all owners prosper precisely as 
the business prospers during their period of ownership.  Wild 
swings in market prices far above and below business value do not 
change the final gains for owners in aggregate; in the end, 
investor gains must equal business gains.  But long periods of 
substantial undervaluation and/or overvaluation will cause the 
gains of the business to be inequitably distributed among various 
owners, with the investment result of any given owner largely 
depending upon how lucky, shrewd, or foolish he happens to be.

     Over the long term there has been a more consistent 
relationship between Berkshire’s market value and business value 
than has existed for any other publicly-traded equity with which 
I am familiar.  This is a tribute to you.  Because you have been 
rational, interested, and investment-oriented, the market price 
for Berkshire stock has almost always been sensible.  This 
unusual result has been achieved by a shareholder group with 
unusual demographics: virtually all of our shareholders are 
individuals, not institutions.  No other public company our size 
can claim the same.

     You might think that institutions, with their large staffs 
of highly-paid and experienced investment professionals, would be 
a force for stability and reason in financial markets.  They are 
not: stocks heavily owned and constantly monitored by 
institutions have often been among the most inappropriately 
valued.

     Ben Graham told a story 40 years ago that illustrates why 
investment professionals behave as they do: An oil prospector, 
moving to his heavenly reward, was met by St. Peter with bad 
news.  “You’re qualified for residence”, said St. Peter, “but, as 
you can see, the compound reserved for oil men is packed.  
There’s no way to squeeze you in.” After thinking a moment, the 
prospector asked if he might say just four words to the present 
occupants.  That seemed harmless to St. Peter, so the prospector 
cupped his hands and yelled, “Oil discovered in hell.” 
Immediately the gate to the compound opened and all of the oil 
men marched out to head for the nether regions.  Impressed, St. 
Peter invited the prospector to move in and make himself 
comfortable.  The prospector paused.  “No,” he said, “I think 
I’ll go along with the rest of the boys.  There might be some 
truth to that rumor after all.”
Sources of Reported Earnings
The table on the next page shows the major sources of 
Berkshire’s reported earnings.  These numbers, along with far 
more detailed sub-segment numbers, are the ones that Charlie and 
I focus upon.  We do not find consolidated figures an aid in 
either managing or evaluating Berkshire and, in fact, never 
prepare them for internal use.

     Segment information is equally essential for investors 
wanting to know what is going on in a multi-line business.  
Corporate managers always have insisted upon such information 
before making acquisition decisions but, until a few years ago, 
seldom made it available to investors faced with acquisition and 
disposition decisions of their own.  Instead, when owners wishing 
to understand the economic realities of their business asked for 
data, managers usually gave them a we-can’t-tell-you-what-is-
going-on-because-it-would-hurt-the-company answer.  Ultimately 
the SEC ordered disclosure of segment data and management began 
supplying real answers.  The change in their behavior recalls an 
insight of Al Capone: “You can get much further with a kind word 
and a gun than you can with a kind word alone.”

In the table, amortization of Goodwill is not charged against the 
specific businesses but, for reasons outlined in the Appendix to 
my letter in the 1983 annual report, is aggregated as a separate 