we record.
The earnings that the four companies retain are often used for repurchases – which enhance our share of
future earnings – and also for funding business opportunities that are usually advantageous. Over time we
expect substantially greater earnings from these four investees. If we are correct, dividends to Berkshire
will increase and, even more important, so will our unrealized capital gains (which, for the four, totaled
$26.7 billion at yearend).

Š

There was a lot of hand-wringing last year among CEOs who cried “uncertainty” when faced with capitalallocation decisions (despite many of their businesses having enjoyed record levels of both earnings and
cash). At Berkshire, we didn’t share their fears, instead spending a record $9.8 billion on plant and
equipment in 2012, about 88% of it in the United States. That’s 19% more than we spent in 2011, our
previous high. Charlie and I love investing large sums in worthwhile projects, whatever the pundits are
saying. We instead heed the words from Gary Allan’s new country song, “Every Storm Runs Out of Rain.”
We will keep our foot to the floor and will almost certainly set still another record for capital expenditures
in 2013. Opportunities abound in America.
************
A thought for my fellow CEOs: Of course, the immediate future is uncertain; America has faced the
unknown since 1776. It’s just that sometimes people focus on the myriad of uncertainties that always exist
while at other times they ignore them (usually because the recent past has been uneventful).

5

American business will do fine over time. And stocks will do well just as certainly, since their fate is tied
to business performance. Periodic setbacks will occur, yes, but investors and managers are in a game that
is heavily stacked in their favor. (The Dow Jones Industrials advanced from 66 to 11,497 in the 20th
Century, a staggering 17,320% increase that materialized despite four costly wars, a Great Depression and
many recessions. And don’t forget that shareholders received substantial dividends throughout the century
as well.)
Since the basic game is so favorable, Charlie and I believe it’s a terrible mistake to try to dance in and out
of it based upon the turn of tarot cards, the predictions of “experts,” or the ebb and flow of business
activity. The risks of being out of the game are huge compared to the risks of being in it.
My own history provides a dramatic example: I made my first stock purchase in the spring of 1942 when
the U.S. was suffering major losses throughout the Pacific war zone. Each day’s headlines told of more
setbacks. Even so, there was no talk about uncertainty; every American I knew believed we would prevail.
The country’s success since that perilous time boggles the mind: On an inflation-adjusted basis, GDP per
capita more than quadrupled between 1941 and 2012. Throughout that period, every tomorrow has been
uncertain. America’s destiny, however, has always been clear: ever-increasing abundance.
If you are a CEO who has some large, profitable project you are shelving because of short-term worries,
call Berkshire. Let us unburden you.
************
In summary, Charlie and I hope to build per-share intrinsic value by (1) improving the earning power of our
many subsidiaries; (2) further increasing their earnings through bolt-on acquisitions; (3) participating in the growth
of our investees; (4) repurchasing Berkshire shares when they are available at a meaningful discount from intrinsic
value; and (5) making an occasional large acquisition. We will also try to maximize results for you by rarely, if
ever, issuing Berkshire shares.
Those building blocks rest on a rock-solid foundation. A century hence, BNSF and MidAmerican Energy
will continue to play major roles in the American economy. Insurance, moreover, will always be essential for both
businesses and individuals – and no company brings greater resources to that arena than Berkshire. As we view
these and other strengths, Charlie and I like your company’s prospects.
Intrinsic Business Value
As much as Charlie and I talk about intrinsic business value, we cannot tell you precisely what that number
is for Berkshire shares (or, for that matter, any other stock). In our 2010 annual report, however, we laid out the
three elements – one of which was qualitative – that we believe are the keys to a sensible estimate of Berkshire’s
intrinsic value. That discussion is reproduced in full on pages 104-105.
Here is an update of the two quantitative factors: In 2012 our per-share investments increased 15.7% to
$113,786, and our per-share pre-tax earnings from businesses other than insurance and investments also increased
15.7% to $8,085.
Since 1970, our per-share investments have increased at a rate of 19.4% compounded annually, and our
per-share earnings figure has grown at a 20.8% clip. It is no coincidence that the price of Berkshire stock over the
42-year period has increased at a rate very similar to that of our two measures of value. Charlie and I like to see
gains in both areas, but our strong emphasis will always be on building operating earnings.
************
Now, let’s examine the four major sectors of our operations. Each has vastly different balance sheet and
income characteristics from the others. Lumping them together therefore impedes analysis. So we’ll present them
as four separate businesses, which is how Charlie and I view them.

6

Insurance
Let’s look first at insurance, Berkshire’s core operation and the engine that has propelled our expansion
over the years.
Property-casualty (“P/C”) insurers receive premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases, such
as those arising from certain workers’ compensation accidents, payments can stretch over decades. This collectnow, pay-later model leaves us holding large sums – money we call “float” – that will eventually go to others.
Meanwhile, we get to invest this float for Berkshire’s benefit. Though individual policies and claims come and go,
the amount of float we hold remains quite stable in relation to premium volume. Consequently, as our business
grows, so does our float. And how we have grown, as the following table shows:
Year

Float (in $ millions)

1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2012

$

39
237
1,632
27,871
65,832
73,125

Last year I told you that our float was likely to level off or even decline a bit in the future. Our insurance
CEOs set out to prove me wrong and did, increasing float last year by $2.5 billion. I now expect a further increase
in 2013. But further gains will be tough to achieve. On the plus side, GEICO’s float will almost certainly grow. In
National Indemnity’s reinsurance division, however, we have a number of run-off contracts whose float drifts
downward. If we do experience a decline in float at some future time, it will be very gradual – at the outside no
more than 2% in any year.
If our premiums exceed the total of our expenses and eventual losses, we register an underwriting profit
that adds to the investment income our float produces. When such a profit is earned, we enjoy the use of free money
– and, better yet, get paid for holding it. That’s like your taking out a loan and having the bank pay you interest.
Unfortunately, the wish of all insurers to achieve this happy result creates intense competition, so vigorous
in most years that it causes the P/C industry as a whole to operate at a significant underwriting loss. This loss, in
effect, is what the industry pays to hold its float. For example, State Farm, by far the country’s largest insurer and a
well-managed company besides, incurred an underwriting loss in eight of the eleven years ending in 2011. (Their
financials for 2012 are not yet available.) There are a lot of ways to lose money in insurance, and the industry never
ceases searching for new ones.
As noted in the first section of this report, we have now operated at an underwriting profit for ten
consecutive years, our pre-tax gain for the period having totaled $18.6 billion. Looking ahead, I believe we will
continue to underwrite profitably in most years. If we do, our float will be better than free money.
So how does our attractive float affect the calculations of intrinsic value? When Berkshire’s book value is
calculated, the full amount of our float is deducted as a liability, just as if we had to pay it out tomorrow and were
unable to replenish it. But that’s an incorrect way to look at float, which should instead be viewed as a revolving
fund. If float is both costless and long-enduring, which I believe Berkshire’s will be, the true value of this liability is
dramatically less than the accounting liability.
A partial offset to this overstated liability is $15.5 billion of “goodwill” that is attributable to our insurance
companies and included in book value as an asset. In effect, this goodwill represents the price we paid for the floatgenerating capabilities of our insurance operations. The cost of the goodwill, however, has no bearing on its true
value. For example, if an insurance business sustains large and prolonged underwriting losses, any goodwill asset