# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1989

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Our gain in net worth during 1989 was $1.515 billion, or 
44.4%. Over the last 25 years (that is, since present management 
took over) our per-share book value has grown from $19.46 to 
$4,296.01, or at a rate of 23.8% compounded annually.

     What counts, however, is intrinsic value - the figure 
indicating what all of our constituent businesses are rationally 
worth. With perfect foresight, this number can be calculated by 
taking all future cash flows of a business - in and out - and 
discounting them at prevailing interest rates. So valued, all 
businesses, from manufacturers of buggy whips to operators of 
cellular phones, become economic equals. 

     Back when Berkshire's book value was $19.46, intrinsic 
value was somewhat less because the book value was entirely tied 
up in a textile business not worth the figure at which it was 
carried. Now most of our businesses are worth far more than their 
carrying values. This agreeable evolution from a discount to a 
premium means that Berkshire's intrinsic business value has 
compounded at a rate that somewhat exceeds our 23.8% annual 
growth in book value.

     The rear-view mirror is one thing; the windshield is 
another. A large portion of our book value is represented by 
equity securities that, with minor exceptions, are carried on our 
balance sheet at current market values. At yearend these 
securities were valued at higher prices, relative to their own 
intrinsic business values, than has been the case in the past. 
One reason is the buoyant 1989 stock market. More important, the 
virtues of these businesses have been widely recognized. Whereas 
once their stock prices were inappropriately low, they are not 
now.

     We will keep most of our major holdings, regardless of how 
they are priced relative to intrinsic business value. This 'til-
death-do-us-part attitude, combined with the full prices these 
holdings command, means that they cannot be expected to push up 
Berkshire's value in the future as sharply as in the past. In 
other words, our performance to date has benefited from a double-
dip: (1) the exceptional gains in intrinsic value that our 
portfolio companies have achieved; (2) the additional bonus we 
realized as the market appropriately "corrected" the prices of 
these companies, raising their valuations in relation to those of 
the average business. We will continue to benefit from good gains 
in business value that we feel confident our portfolio companies 
will make. But our "catch-up" rewards have been realized, which 
means we'll have to settle for a single-dip in the future.

     We face another obstacle: In a finite world, high growth 
rates must self-destruct. If the base from which the growth is 
taking place is tiny, this law may not operate for a time. But 
when the base balloons, the party ends: A high growth rate 
eventually forges its own anchor.

     Carl Sagan has entertainingly described this phenomenon, 
musing about the destiny of bacteria that reproduce by dividing 
into two every 15 minutes. Says Sagan: "That means four doublings 
an hour, and 96 doublings a day. Although a bacterium weighs only 
about a trillionth of a gram, its descendants, after a day of 
wild asexual abandon, will collectively weigh as much as a 
mountain...in two days, more than the sun - and before very long, 
everything in the universe will be made of bacteria." Not to 
worry, says Sagan:  Some obstacle always impedes this kind of 
exponential growth. "The bugs run out of food, or they poison 
each other, or they are shy about reproducing in public."  

     Even on bad days, Charlie Munger (Berkshire's Vice Chairman 
and my partner) and I do not think of Berkshire as a bacterium. 
Nor, to our unending sorrow, have we found a way to double its 
net worth every 15 minutes. Furthermore, we are not the least bit 
shy about reproducing - financially - in public. Nevertheless, 
Sagan's observations apply. From Berkshire's present base of $4.9 
billion in net worth, we will find it much more difficult to 
average 15% annual growth in book value than we did to average 
23.8% from the $22 million we began with.
Taxes
Our 1989 gain of $1.5 billion was achieved after we took a 
charge of about $712 million for income taxes. In addition, 
Berkshire's share of the income taxes paid by its five major 
investees totaled about $175 million. 

     Of this year's tax charge, about $172 million will be paid 
currently; the remainder, $540 million, is deferred. Almost all 
of the deferred portion relates to the 1989 increase in 
unrealized profits in our common stock holdings. Against this 
increase, we have reserved a 34% tax.

     We also carry reserves at that rate against all unrealized 
profits generated in 1987 and 1988. But, as we explained last 
year, the unrealized gains we amassed before 1987 - about $1.2 
billion - carry reserves booked at the 28% tax rate that then 
prevailed. 

     A new accounting rule is likely to be adopted that will 
require companies to reserve against all gains at the current tax 
rate, whatever it may be. With the rate at 34%, such a rule would 
increase our deferred tax liability, and decrease our net worth, 
by about $71 million - the result of raising the reserve on our 
pre-1987 gain by six percentage points. Because the proposed rule 
has sparked widespread controversy and its final form is unclear, 
we have not yet made this change.

     As you can see from our balance sheet on page 27, we would 
owe taxes of more than $1.1 billion were we to sell all of our 
securities at year-end market values. Is this $1.1 billion 
liability equal, or even similar, to a $1.1 billion liability 
payable to a trade creditor 15 days after the end of the year?  
Obviously not - despite the fact that both items have exactly the 
same effect on audited net worth, reducing it by $1.1 billion.

     On the other hand, is this liability for deferred taxes a 
meaningless accounting fiction because its payment can be 
triggered only by the sale of stocks that, in very large part, we 
have no intention of selling?  Again, the answer is no. 

     In economic terms, the liability resembles an interest-free 
loan from the U.S. Treasury that comes due only at our election 
(unless, of course, Congress moves to tax gains before they are 
realized). This "loan" is peculiar in other respects as well: It 
can be used only to finance the ownership of the particular, 
appreciated stocks and it fluctuates in size - daily as market 
prices change and periodically if tax rates change. In effect, 
this deferred tax liability is equivalent to a very large 
transfer tax that is payable only if we elect to move from one 
asset to another. Indeed, we sold some relatively small holdings 
in 1989, incurring about $76 million of "transfer" tax on $224 
million of gains.

     Because of the way the tax law works, the Rip Van Winkle 
style of investing that we favor - if successful - has an 
important mathematical edge over a more frenzied approach. Let's 
look at an extreme comparison.

     Imagine that Berkshire had only $1, which we put in a 
security that doubled by yearend and was then sold. Imagine 
further that we used the after-tax proceeds to repeat this 
process in each of the next 19 years, scoring a double each time. 
At the end of the 20 years, the 34% capital gains tax that we 
would have paid on the profits from each sale would have 
delivered about $13,000 to the government and we would be left 
with about $25,250. Not bad. If, however, we made a single 
fantastic investment that
itself
doubled 20 times during the 20 
years, our dollar would grow to $1,048,576. Were we then to cash 
out, we would pay a 34% tax of roughly $356,500 and be left with 
about $692,000. 

     The sole reason for this staggering difference in results 
would be the timing of tax payments. Interestingly, the 
government would gain from Scenario 2 in exactly the same 27:1 
ratio as we - taking in taxes of $356,500 vs. $13,000 - though, 
admittedly, it would have to wait for its money.

     We have not, we should stress, adopted our strategy 
favoring long-term investment commitments because of these 
mathematics. Indeed, it is possible we could earn greater after-
tax returns by moving rather frequently from one investment to 
another. Many years ago, that's exactly what Charlie and I did.

     Now we would rather stay put, even if that means slightly 
lower returns. Our reason is simple: We have found splendid 
business relationships to be so rare and so enjoyable that we 
want to retain all we develop.  This decision is particularly 
easy for us because we feel that these relationships will produce
good - though perhaps not optimal - financial results. 
Considering that, we think it makes little sense for us to give 
up time with people we know to be interesting and admirable for 