situation in year 2 might be $90 million cash interest plus $69 
million accrued interest, and so on as the compounding proceeds. 
Such high-rate reborrowing schemes, which a few years ago were 
appropriately confined to the waterfront,  soon became models of 
modern finance at virtually all major investment banking houses.

     When they make these offerings, investment bankers display 
their humorous side: They dispense income and balance sheet 
projections extending five or more years into the future for 
companies they barely had heard of a few months earlier. If you 
are shown such schedules, I suggest that you join in the fun:  
Ask the investment banker for the
one-year
budgets that his own 
firm prepared as the last few years began and then compare these 
with what actually happened.

     Some time ago Ken Galbraith, in his witty and insightful
The Great Crash
, coined a new economic term: "the bezzle," 
defined as the current amount of undiscovered embezzlement. This 
financial creature has a magical quality: The embezzlers are richer 
by the amount of the bezzle, while the embezzlees do not yet feel 
poorer.

     Professor Galbraith astutely pointed out that this sum 
should be added to the National Wealth so that we might know the 
Psychic National Wealth. Logically, a society that wanted to
feel
enormously prosperous would both encourage its citizens to 
embezzle and try not to detect the crime. By this means, "wealth" 
would balloon though not an erg of productive work had been done. 

     The satirical nonsense of the bezzle is dwarfed by the real-
world nonsense of the zero-coupon bond. With zeros, one party to 
a contract can experience "income" without his opposite 
experiencing the pain of expenditure. In our illustration, a 
company capable of earning only $100 million dollars annually - 
and therefore capable of paying only that much in interest - 
magically creates "earnings" for bondholders of $150 million. As 
long as major investors willingly don their Peter Pan wings and 
repeatedly say "I believe," there is no limit to how much 
"income" can be created by the zero-coupon bond.

     Wall Street welcomed this invention with the enthusiasm 
less-enlightened folk might reserve for the wheel or the plow. 
Here, finally, was an instrument that would let the Street make 
deals at prices no longer limited by actual earning power. The 
result, obviously, would be more transactions: Silly prices will 
always attract sellers. And, as Jesse Unruh might have put it, 
transactions are the mother's milk of finance.

     The zero-coupon or PIK bond possesses one additional 
attraction for the promoter and investment banker, which is that 
the time elapsing between folly and failure can be stretched out. 
This is no small benefit. If the period before all costs must be 
faced is long, promoters can create a string of foolish deals - 
and take in lots of fees - before any chickens come home to roost 
from their earlier ventures. 

     But in the end, alchemy, whether it is metallurgical or 
financial, fails. A base business can not be transformed into a 
golden business by tricks of accounting or capital structure. The 
man claiming to be a financial alchemist may become rich. But 
gullible investors rather than business achievements will usually 
be the source of his wealth.

     Whatever their weaknesses, we should add, many zero-coupon 
and PIK bonds will not default. We have in fact owned some and 
may buy more if their market becomes sufficiently distressed. 
(We've not, however, even considered buying a new issue from a 
weak credit.) No financial instrument is evil per se; it's just 
that some variations have far more potential for mischief than 
others.

     The blue ribbon for mischief-making should go to the zero-
coupon issuer unable to make its interest payments on a current 
basis. Our advice: Whenever an investment banker starts talking 
about EBDIT - or whenever someone creates a capital structure 
that does not allow all interest, both payable and accrued, to be 
comfortably met out of current cash flow
net of ample capital 
expenditures
- zip up your wallet. Turn the tables by suggesting 
that the promoter and his high-priced entourage accept zero-
coupon fees, deferring their take until the zero-coupon bonds 
have been paid in full. See then how much enthusiasm for the deal 
endures.

     Our comments about investment bankers may seem harsh. But 
Charlie and I - in our hopelessly old-fashioned way - believe 
that they should perform a gatekeeping role, guarding investors 
against the promoter's propensity to indulge in excess. 
Promoters, after all, have throughout time exercised the same 
judgment and restraint in accepting money that alcoholics have 
exercised in accepting liquor. At a minimum, therefore, the 
banker's conduct should rise to that of a responsible bartender 
who, when necessary, refuses the profit from the next drink to 
avoid sending a drunk out on the highway. In recent years, 
unfortunately, many leading investment firms have found bartender 
morality to be an intolerably restrictive standard. Lately, those 
who have traveled the high road in Wall Street have not 
encountered heavy traffic.

     One distressing footnote: The cost of the zero-coupon folly 
will not be borne solely by the direct participants. Certain 
savings and loan associations were heavy buyers of such bonds, 
using cash that came from FSLIC-insured deposits. Straining to 
show splendid earnings, these buyers recorded - but did not 
receive - ultra-high interest income on these issues. Many of 
these  associations are now in  major trouble. Had their loans to 
shaky credits worked, the owners of the associations would have 
pocketed the profits. In the many cases in which the loans will 
fail, the taxpayer will pick up the bill. To paraphrase Jackie 
Mason, at these associations it was the managers who should have 
been wearing the ski masks.
Mistakes of the First Twenty-five Years (A Condensed Version)
To quote Robert Benchley, "Having a dog teaches a boy 
fidelity, perseverance, and to turn around three times before 
lying down." Such are the shortcomings of experience. 
Nevertheless, it's a good idea to review past mistakes before 
committing new ones. So let's take a quick look at the last 25 
years.
o
My first mistake, of course, was in buying control of 
Berkshire. Though I knew its business - textile manufacturing - 
to be unpromising, I was enticed to buy because the price looked 
cheap. Stock purchases of that kind had proved reasonably 
rewarding in my early years, though by the time Berkshire came 
along in 1965 I was becoming aware that the strategy was not 
ideal.

     If you buy a stock at a sufficiently low price, there will 
usually be some hiccup in the fortunes of the business that gives 
you a chance to unload at a decent profit, even though the long-
term performance of the business may be terrible. I call this the 
"cigar butt" approach to investing. A cigar butt found on the 
street that has only one puff left in it may not offer much of a 
smoke, but the "bargain purchase" will make that puff all profit.

     Unless you are a liquidator, that kind of approach to buying 
businesses is foolish. First, the original "bargain" price 
probably will not turn out to be such a steal after all. In a 
difficult business, no sooner is one problem solved than another 
surfaces -  never is there just one cockroach in the kitchen. 
Second, any initial advantage you secure will be quickly eroded 
by the low return that the business earns. For example, if you 
buy a business for $8 million that can be sold or liquidated for 
$10 million and promptly take either course, you can realize a 
high return. But the investment will disappoint if the business 
is sold for $10 million in ten years and in the interim has 
annually earned and distributed only a few percent on cost. Time 
is the friend of the wonderful business, the enemy of the 
mediocre.

     You might think this principle is obvious, but I had to 
learn it the hard way - in fact, I had to learn it several times 
over. Shortly after purchasing Berkshire, I acquired a Baltimore 
department store, Hochschild Kohn, buying through a company 
called Diversified Retailing that later merged with Berkshire. I 
bought at a substantial discount from book value, the people were 
first-class, and the deal included some extras - unrecorded real 
estate values and a significant LIFO inventory cushion. How could 
I miss? So-o-o - three years later I was lucky to sell the 
business for about what I had paid. After ending our corporate 
marriage to Hochschild Kohn, I had memories like those of the 
husband in the country song, "My Wife Ran Away With My Best 
Friend and I Still Miss Him a Lot."

     I could give you other personal examples of "bargain-
purchase" folly but I'm sure you get the picture:  It's far 
better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair 
company at a wonderful price. Charlie understood this early; I 
was a slow learner. But now, when buying companies or common 