deductions - or none at all.  In those years we will not effect 
our shareholder designated charitable program.  In all other 
years we expect to inform you about October 10th of the amount 
per share that you may designate.  A reply form will accompany 
the notice, and you will be given about three weeks to respond 
with your designation.
To qualify, your shares must be 
registered in your own name or the name of an owning trust, 
corporation, partnership or estate, if applicable, on our 
stockholder list of September 30th, or the Friday preceding if 
such date falls on a Saturday or Sunday.
Our only disappointment with this program in 1981 was that 
some of our shareholders, through no fault of their own, missed 
the opportunity to participate.  The Treasury Department ruling 
allowing us to proceed without tax uncertainty was received early 
in October.  The ruling did not cover participation by 
shareholders whose stock was registered in the name of nominees, 
such as brokers, and additionally required that the owners of all 
designating shares make certain assurances to Berkshire.  These 
assurances could not be given us in effective form by nominee 
holders.

     Under these circumstances, we attempted to communicate with 
all of our owners promptly (via the October 14th letter) so that, 
if they wished, they could prepare themselves to participate by 
the November 13th record date.  It was particularly important 
that this information be communicated promptly to stockholders 
whose holdings were in nominee name, since they would not be 
eligible unless they took action to re-register their shares 
before the record date.

     Unfortunately, communication to such non-record shareholders 
could take place only through the nominees.  We therefore 
strongly urged those nominees, mostly brokerage houses, to 
promptly transmit our letter to the real owners.  We explained 
that their failure to do so could deprive such owners of an 
important benefit.

     The results from our urgings would not strengthen the case 
for private ownership of the U.S. Postal Service.  Many of our 
shareholders never heard from their brokers (as some shareholders 
told us after reading news accounts of the program).  Others were 
forwarded our letter too late for action.

     One of the largest brokerage houses claiming to hold stock 
for sixty of its clients (about 4% of our shareholder 
population), apparently transmitted our letter about three weeks 
after receipt - too late for any of the sixty to participate. 
(Such lassitude did not pervade all departments of that firm; it 
billed Berkshire for mailing services within six days of that 
belated and ineffectual action.)

     We recite such horror stories for two reasons: (1) if you 
wish to participate in future designated contribution programs, 
be sure to have your stock registered in your name well before 
September 30th; and (2) even if you don’t care to participate and 
prefer to leave your stock in nominee form, it would be wise to 
have at least one share registered in your own name.  By so 
doing, you can be sure that you will be notified of any important 
corporate news at the same time as all other shareholders.

     The designated-contributions idea, along with many other 
ideas that have turned out well for us, was conceived by Charlie 
Munger, Vice Chairman of Berkshire and Chairman of Blue Chip.  
Irrespective of titles, Charlie and I work as partners in 
managing all controlled companies.  To almost a sinful degree, we 
enjoy our work as managing partners.  And we enjoy having you as 
our financial partners.


                                          Warren E. Buffett
                                          Chairman of the Board
