particularly wrenching experience: First, he had a son-in-law working in the World Trade Center who couldn’t be
located; and second, he knew we had the option of backing away from our purchase. The story ended happily:
Lew’s son-in-law escaped serious harm, and Berkshire completed the transaction.
Trailer leasing is a cyclical business but one in which we should earn decent returns over time. Lew brings
a new talent to Berkshire, and we hope to expand in leasing.
************
On December 3rd, I received a call from Craig Ponzio, owner of Larson-Juhl, the U.S. leader in custommade picture frames. Craig had bought the company in 1981 (after first working at its manufacturing plant while
attending college) and thereafter increased its sales from $3 million to $300 million. Though I had never heard of
Larson-Juhl before Craig’s call, a few minutes talk with him made me think we would strike a deal. He was
straightforward in describing the business, cared about who bought it, and was realistic as to price. Two days later,
Craig and Steve McKenzie, his CEO, came to Omaha and in ninety minutes we reached an agreement. In ten days
we had signed a contract.
Larson-Juhl serves about 18,000 framing shops in the U.S. and is also the industry leader in Canada and
much of Europe. We expect to see opportunities for making complementary acquisitions in the future.
***********
As I write this letter, creditors are considering an offer we have made for Fruit of the Loom. The company
entered bankruptcy a few years back, a victim both of too much debt and poor management. And, a good many
years before that, I had some Fruit of the Loom experience of my own.
In August 1955, I was one of five employees, including two secretaries, working for the three managers of
Graham-Newman Corporation, a New York investment company. Graham-Newman controlled Philadelphia and
Reading Coal and Iron (“P&R”), an anthracite producer that had excess cash, a tax loss carryforward, and a
declining business. At the time, I had a significant portion of my limited net worth invested in P&R shares,
reflecting my faith in the business talents of my bosses, Ben Graham, Jerry Newman and Howard (Micky) Newman.
This faith was rewarded when P&R purchased the Union Underwear Company from Jack Goldfarb for $15
million. Union (though it was then only a licensee of the name) produced Fruit of the Loom underwear. The
company possessed $5 million in cash – $2.5 million of which P&R used for the purchase – and was earning about
$3 million pre-tax, earnings that could be sheltered by the tax position of P&R. And, oh yes: Fully $9 million of the
remaining $12.5 million due was satisfied by non-interest-bearing notes, payable from 50% of any earnings Union
had in excess of $1 million. (Those were the days; I get goosebumps just thinking about such deals.)
Subsequently, Union bought the licensor of the Fruit of the Loom name and, along with P&R, was merged
into Northwest Industries. Fruit went on to achieve annual pre-tax earnings exceeding $200 million.
John Holland was responsible for Fruit’s operations in its most bountiful years. In 1996, however, John
retired, and management loaded the company with debt, in part to make a series of acquisitions that proved
disappointing. Bankruptcy followed. John was then rehired, and he undertook a major reworking of operations.
Before John’s return, deliveries were chaotic, costs soared and relations with key customers deteriorated. While
correcting these problems, John also reduced employment from a bloated 40,000 to 23,000. In short, he’s been
restoring the old Fruit of the Loom, albeit in a much more competitive environment.
Stepping into Fruit’s bankruptcy proceedings, we made a proposal to creditors to which we attached no
financing conditions, even though our offer had to remain outstanding for many months. We did, however, insist on
a very unusual proviso: John had to be available to continue serving as CEO after we took over. To us, John and
the brand are Fruit’s key assets.
I was helped in this transaction by my friend and former boss, Micky Newman, now 81. What goes around
truly does come around.
************

5

Our operating companies made several “bolt-on” acquisitions during the year, and I can’t resist telling you
about one. In December, Frank Rooney called to tell me H.H. Brown was buying the inventory and trademarks of
Acme Boot for $700,000.
That sounds like small potatoes. But – would you believe it? – Acme was the second purchase of P&R, an
acquisition that took place just before I left Graham-Newman in the spring of 1956. The price was $3.2 million,
part of it again paid with non-interest bearing notes, for a business with sales of $7 million.
After P&R merged with Northwest, Acme grew to be the world’s largest bootmaker, delivering annual
profits many multiples of what the company had cost P&R. But the business eventually hit the skids and never
recovered, and that resulted in our purchasing Acme’s remnants.
In the frontispiece to Security Analysis, Ben Graham and Dave Dodd quoted Horace: “Many shall be
restored that now are fallen and many shall fall that are now in honor.” Fifty-two years after I first read those lines,
my appreciation for what they say about business and investments continues to grow.
************
In addition to bolt-on acquisitions, our managers continually look for ways to grow internally. In that
regard, here’s a postscript to a story I told you two years ago about R.C. Willey’s move to Boise. As you may
remember, Bill Child, R.C. Willey’s chairman, wanted to extend his home-furnishings operation beyond Utah, a
state in which his company does more than $300 million of business (up, it should be noted, from $250,000 when
Bill took over 48 years ago). The company achieved this dominant position, moreover, with a “closed on Sunday”
policy that defied conventional retailing wisdom. I was skeptical that this policy could succeed in Boise or, for that
matter, anyplace outside of Utah. After all, Sunday is the day many consumers most like to shop.
Bill then insisted on something extraordinary: He would invest $11 million of his own money to build the
Boise store and would sell it to Berkshire at cost (without interest!) if the venture succeeded. If it failed, Bill would
keep the store and eat the loss on its disposal. As I told you in the 1999 annual report, the store immediately
became a huge success ― and it has since grown.
Shortly after the Boise opening, Bill suggested we try Las Vegas, and this time I was even more skeptical.
How could we do business in a metropolis of that size and be closed on Sundays, a day that all of our competitors
would be exploiting? Buoyed by the Boise experience, however, we proceeded to locate in Henderson, a
mushrooming city adjacent to Las Vegas.
The result: This store outsells all others in the R.C. Willey chain, doing a volume of business that far
exceeds the volume of any competitor and that is twice what I had anticipated. I cut the ribbon at the grand opening
in October – this was after a “soft” opening and a few weeks of exceptional sales – and, just as I did at Boise, I
suggested to the crowd that the new store was my idea.
It didn’t work. Today, when I pontificate about retailing, Berkshire people just say, “What does Bill
think?” (I’m going to draw the line, however, if he suggests that we also close on Saturdays.)
The Economics of Property/Casualty Insurance
Our main business — though we have others of great importance — is insurance. To understand
Berkshire, therefore, it is necessary that you understand how to evaluate an insurance company. The key
determinants are: (1) the amount of float that the business generates; (2) its cost; and (3) most critical of all, the
long-term outlook for both of these factors.
To begin with, float is money we hold but don't own. In an insurance operation, float arises because
premiums are received before losses are paid, an interval that sometimes extends over many years. During that
time, the insurer invests the money. This pleasant activity typically carries with it a downside: The premiums that
an insurer takes in usually do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually must pay. That leaves it running an
"underwriting loss," which is the cost of float. An insurance business has value if its cost of float over time is less
than the cost the company would otherwise incur to obtain funds. But the business is a lemon if its cost of float is
higher than market rates for money.

6

Historically, Berkshire has obtained its float at a very low cost. Indeed, our cost has been less than zero in
about half of the years in which we’ve operated; that is, we’ve actually been paid for holding other people’s money.
Over the last few years, however, our cost has been too high, and in 2001 it was terrible.