Even faster growth awaits EJA (whose fractional-ownership program is called NetJets). Rich Santulli is
the dynamo behind this business.
Last year I told you that EJA’s recurring revenue from monthly management fees and hourly usage grew
by 46% in 1999. In 2000 the growth was 49%. I also told you that this was a low-margin business, in which
survivors will be few. Margins were indeed slim at EJA last year, in part because of the major costs we are
incurring in developing our business in Europe.
Regardless of the cost, you can be sure that EJA’s spending on safety will be whatever is needed.
Obviously, we would follow this policy under any circumstances, but there’s some self-interest here as well: I, my
wife, my children, my sisters, my 94-year-old aunt, all but one of our directors, and at least nine Berkshire managers
regularly fly in the NetJets program. Given that cargo, I applaud Rich’s insistence on unusually high amounts of
pilot training (an average of 23 days a year). In addition, our pilots cement their skills by flying 800 or so hours a
year. Finally, each flies only one model of aircraft, which means our crews do no switching around among planes
with different cockpit and flight characteristics.
EJA’s business continues to be constrained by the availability of new aircraft. Still, our customers will
take delivery of more than 50 new jets in 2001, 7% of world output. We are confident we will remain the world
leader in fractional ownership, in respect to number of planes flying, quality of service, and standards of safety.
**********
Additional information about our various businesses is given on pages 42-58, where you will also find our
segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis. In addition, on pages 67-73, we have rearranged Berkshire’s financial
data into four segments on a non-GAAP basis, a presentation that corresponds to the way Charlie and I think about
the company.
Look-Through Earnings
Reported earnings are an inadequate measure of economic progress at Berkshire, in part because the
numbers shown in the table on page 15 include only the dividends we receive from investees  though these
dividends typically represent only a small fraction of the earnings attributable to our ownership. To depict
something closer to economic reality at Berkshire than reported earnings, though, we employ the concept of "lookthrough" earnings. As we calculate these, they consist of: (1) the operating earnings reported on page 15; plus; (2)
our share of the retained operating earnings of major investees that, under GAAP accounting, are not reflected in
our profits, less; (3) an allowance for the tax that would be paid by Berkshire if these retained earnings of investees
had instead been distributed to us. When tabulating "operating earnings" here, we exclude purchase-accounting
adjustments as well as capital gains and other major non-recurring items.
The following table sets forth our 2000 look-through earnings, though I warn you that the figures can be no
more than approximate, since they are based on a number of judgment calls. (The dividends paid to us by these
investees have been included in the operating earnings itemized on page 15, mostly under "Insurance Group: Net
Investment Income.")

16

Berkshire's Approximate Berkshire's Share of Undistributed
Berkshire's Major Investees
Ownership at Yearend(1) Operating Earnings (in millions)(2)
American Express Company .............................
11.4%
$265
The Coca-Cola Company ..................................
8.1%
160
Freddie Mac .....................................................
0.3%
106
The Gillette Company.......................................
9.1%
51
M&T Bank .......................................................
7.2%
23
The Washington Post Company ........................
18.3%
18
Wells Fargo & Company...................................
3.2%
117
Berkshire's share of undistributed earnings of major investees
Hypothetical tax on these undistributed investee earnings(3)
Reported operating earnings of Berkshire
Total look-through earnings of Berkshire

740
(104)
1,779
$ 2,415

(1) Does not include shares allocable to minority interests
(2) Calculated on average ownership for the year
(3) The tax rate used is 14%, which is the rate Berkshire pays on most dividends it receives
Full and Fair Reporting
At Berkshire, full reporting means giving you the information that we would wish you to give to us if our
positions were reversed. What Charlie and I would want under that circumstance would be all the important facts
about current operations as well as the CEO’s frank view of the long-term economic characteristics of the business.
We would expect both a lot of financial details and a discussion of any significant data we would need to interpret
what was presented.
When Charlie and I read reports, we have no interest in pictures of personnel, plants or products.
References to EBITDA make us shudder  does management think the tooth fairy pays for capital expenditures?
We’re very suspicious of accounting methodology that is vague or unclear, since too often that means management
wishes to hide something. And we don’t want to read messages that a public relations department or consultant has
turned out. Instead, we expect a company’s CEO to explain in his or her own words what’s happening.
For us, fair reporting means getting information to our 300,000 “partners” simultaneously, or as close to
that mark as possible. We therefore put our annual and quarterly financials on the Internet between the close of the
market on a Friday and the following morning. By our doing that, shareholders and other interested investors have
timely access to these important releases and also have a reasonable amount of time to digest the information they
include before the markets open on Monday. This year our quarterly information will be available on the Saturdays
of May 12, August 11, and November 10. The 2001 annual report will be posted on March 9.
We applaud the work that Arthur Levitt, Jr., until recently Chairman of the SEC, has done in cracking
down on the corporate practice of “selective disclosure” that had spread like cancer in recent years. Indeed, it had
become virtually standard practice for major corporations to “guide” analysts or large holders to earnings
expectations that were intended either to be on the nose or a tiny bit below what the company truly expected to earn.
Through the selectively dispersed hints, winks and nods that companies engaged in, speculatively-minded
institutions and advisors were given an information edge over investment-oriented individuals. This was corrupt
behavior, unfortunately embraced by both Wall Street and corporate America.
Thanks to Chairman Levitt, whose general efforts on behalf of investors were both tireless and effective,
corporations are now required to treat all of their owners equally. The fact that this reform came about because of
coercion rather than conscience should be a matter of shame for CEOs and their investor relations departments.

17

One further thought while I’m on my soapbox: Charlie and I think it is both deceptive and dangerous for
CEOs to predict growth rates for their companies. They are, of course, frequently egged on to do so by both
analysts and their own investor relations departments. They should resist, however, because too often these
predictions lead to trouble.
It’s fine for a CEO to have his own internal goals and, in our view, it’s even appropriate for the CEO to
publicly express some hopes about the future, if these expectations are accompanied by sensible caveats. But for a
major corporation to predict that its per-share earnings will grow over the long term at, say, 15% annually is to court
trouble.
That’s true because a growth rate of that magnitude can only be maintained by a very small percentage of
large businesses. Here’s a test: Examine the record of, say, the 200 highest earning companies from 1970 or 1980
and tabulate how many have increased per-share earnings by 15% annually since those dates. You will find that
only a handful have. I would wager you a very significant sum that fewer than 10 of the 200 most profitable
companies in 2000 will attain 15% annual growth in earnings-per-share over the next 20 years.
The problem arising from lofty predictions is not just that they spread unwarranted optimism. Even more
troublesome is the fact that they corrode CEO behavior. Over the years, Charlie and I have observed many
instances in which CEOs engaged in uneconomic operating maneuvers so that they could meet earnings targets they
had announced. Worse still, after exhausting all that operating acrobatics would do, they sometimes played a wide
variety of accounting games to “make the numbers.” These accounting shenanigans have a way of snowballing:
Once a company moves earnings from one period to another, operating shortfalls that occur thereafter require it to
engage in further accounting maneuvers that must be even more “heroic.” These can turn fudging into fraud.
(More money, it has been noted, has been stolen with the point of a pen than at the point of a gun.)
Charlie and I tend to be leery of companies run by CEOs who woo investors with fancy predictions. A few
of these managers will prove prophetic — but others will turn out to be congenital optimists, or even charlatans.
Unfortunately, it’s not easy for investors to know in advance which species they are dealing with.