(and personality).

     I am merging the discussion of Nebraska Furniture Mart, 
See’s Candy Shops, and Buffalo Evening News here because the 
economic strengths, weaknesses, and prospects of these businesses 
have changed little since I reported to you a year ago.  The 
shortness of this discussion, however, is in no way meant to 
minimize the importance of these businesses to us: in 1985 they 
earned an aggregate of $72 million pre-tax.  Fifteen years ago, 
before we had acquired any of them, their aggregate earnings were 
about $8 million pre-tax.

     While an increase in earnings from $8 million to $72 million 
sounds terrific - and usually is - you should not automatically 
assume that to be the case.  You must first make sure that 
earnings were not severely depressed in the base year.  If they 
were instead substantial in relation to capital employed, an even 
more important point must be examined: how much additional 
capital was required to produce the additional earnings?

     In both respects, our group of three scores well.  First, 
earnings 15 years ago were excellent compared to capital then 
employed in the businesses.  Second, although annual earnings are 
now $64 million greater, the businesses require only about $40 
million more in invested capital to operate than was the case 
then.

     The dramatic growth in earning power of these three 
businesses, accompanied by their need for only minor amounts of 
capital, illustrates very well the power of economic goodwill 
during an inflationary period (a phenomenon explained in detail 
in the 1983 annual report).  The financial characteristics of 
these businesses have allowed us to use a very large portion of 
the earnings they generate elsewhere.  Corporate America, 
however, has had a different experience: in order to increase 
earnings significantly, most companies have needed to increase 
capital significantly also.  The average American business has 
required about $5 of additional capital to generate an additional 
$1 of annual pre-tax earnings.  That business, therefore, would 
have required over $300 million in additional capital from its 
owners in order to achieve an earnings performance equal to our 
group of three.

     When returns on capital are ordinary, an earn-more-by-
putting-up-more record is no great managerial achievement.  You 
can get the same result personally while operating from your 
rocking chair. just quadruple the capital you commit to a savings 
account and you will quadruple your earnings.  You would hardly 
expect hosannas for that particular accomplishment.  Yet, 
retirement announcements regularly sing the praises of CEOs who 
have, say, quadrupled earnings of their widget company during 
their reign - with no one examining whether this gain was 
attributable simply to many years of retained earnings and the 
workings of compound interest.

     If the widget company consistently earned a superior return 
on capital throughout the period, or if capital employed only 
doubled during the CEO’s reign, the praise for him may be well 
deserved.  But if return on capital was lackluster and capital 
employed increased in pace with earnings, applause should be 
withheld.  A savings account in which interest was reinvested 
would achieve the same year-by-year increase in earnings - and, 
at only 8% interest, would quadruple its annual earnings in 18 
years.

     The power of this simple math is often ignored by companies 
to the detriment of their shareholders.  Many corporate 
compensation plans reward managers handsomely for earnings 
increases produced solely, or in large part, by retained earnings 
- i.e., earnings withheld from owners.  For example, ten-year, 
fixed-price stock options are granted routinely, often by 
companies whose dividends are only a small percentage of 
earnings.

     An example will illustrate the inequities possible under 
such circumstances.  Let’s suppose that you had a $100,000 
savings account earning 8% interest and “managed” by a trustee 
who could decide each year what portion of the interest you were 
to be paid in cash.  Interest not paid out would be “retained 
earnings” added to the savings account to compound.  And let’s 
suppose that your trustee, in his superior wisdom, set the “pay-
out ratio” at one-quarter of the annual earnings.

     Under these assumptions, your account would be worth 
$179,084 at the end of ten years.  Additionally, your annual 
earnings would have increased about 70% from $8,000 to $13,515 
under this inspired management.  And, finally, your “dividends” 
would have increased commensurately, rising regularly from $2,000 
in the first year to $3,378 in the tenth year.  Each year, when 
your manager’s public relations firm prepared his annual report 
to you, all of the charts would have had lines marching skyward.

     Now, just for fun, let’s push our scenario one notch further 
and give your trustee-manager a ten-year fixed-price option on 
part of your “business” (i.e., your savings account) based on its 
fair value in the first year.  With such an option, your manager 
would reap a substantial profit at your expense - just from 
having held on to most of your earnings.  If he were both 
Machiavellian and a bit of a mathematician, your manager might 
also have cut the pay-out ratio once he was firmly entrenched.

     This scenario is not as farfetched as you might think.  Many 
stock options in the corporate world have worked in exactly that 
fashion: they have gained in value simply because management 
retained earnings, not because it did well with the capital in 
its hands.

     Managers actually apply a double standard to options.  
Leaving aside warrants (which deliver the issuing corporation 
immediate and substantial compensation), I believe it is fair to 
say that nowhere in the business world are ten-year fixed-price 
options on all or a portion of a business granted to outsiders.  
Ten months, in fact, would be regarded as extreme.  It would be 
particularly unthinkable for managers to grant a long-term option 
on a business that was regularly adding to its capital.  Any 
outsider wanting to secure such an option would be required to 
pay fully for capital added during the option period.

     The unwillingness of managers to do-unto-outsiders, however, 
is not matched by an unwillingness to do-unto-themselves. 
(Negotiating with one’s self seldom produces a barroom brawl.) 
Managers regularly engineer ten-year, fixed-price options for 
themselves and associates that, first, totally ignore the fact 
that retained earnings automatically build value and, second, 
ignore the carrying cost of capital.  As a result, these managers 
end up profiting much as they would have had they had an option 
on that savings account that was automatically building up in 
value.

     Of course, stock options often go to talented, value-adding 
managers and sometimes deliver them rewards that are perfectly 
appropriate. (Indeed, managers who are really exceptional almost 
always get far less than they should.) But when the result is 
equitable, it is accidental.  Once granted, the option is blind 
to individual performance.  Because it is irrevocable and 
unconditional (so long as a manager stays in the company), the 
sluggard receives rewards from his options precisely as does the 
star.  A managerial Rip Van Winkle, ready to doze for ten years, 
could not wish for a better “incentive” system.

     (I can’t resist commenting on one long-term option given an 
“outsider”: that granted the U.S. Government on Chrysler shares 
as partial consideration for the government’s guarantee of some 
lifesaving loans.  When these options worked out well for the 
government, Chrysler sought to modify the payoff, arguing that 
the rewards to the government were both far greater than intended 
and outsize in relation to its contribution to Chrysler’s 
recovery.  The company’s anguish over what it saw as an imbalance 
between payoff and performance made national news.  That anguish 
may well be unique: to my knowledge, no managers - anywhere - 
have been similarly offended by unwarranted payoffs arising from 
options granted to themselves or their colleagues.)

     Ironically, the rhetoric about options frequently describes 
them as desirable because they put managers and owners in the 
same financial boat.  In reality, the boats are far different.  
No owner has ever escaped the burden of capital costs, whereas a 
holder of a fixed-price option bears no capital costs at all.  An 
owner must weigh upside potential against downside risk; an 
option holder has no downside.  In fact, the business project in 
which you would wish to have an option frequently is a project in 
which you would reject ownership. (I’ll be happy to accept a 
lottery ticket as a gift - but I’ll never buy one.)

     In dividend policy also, the option holders’ interests are 
best served by a policy that may ill serve the owner.  Think back 
to the savings account example.  The trustee, holding his option, 
would benefit from a no-dividend policy.  Conversely, the owner 
of the account should lean to a total payout so that he can 
prevent the option-holding manager from sharing in the account’s 
retained earnings.

     Despite their shortcomings, options can be appropriate under 
some circumstances.  My criticism relates to their indiscriminate 
use and, in that connection, I would like to emphasize three 
points:

     First, stock options are inevitably tied to the overall 
performance of a corporation.  Logically, therefore, they should 
be awarded only to those managers with overall responsibility.  
Managers with limited areas of responsibility should have 