depreciation charge. About 89% of that money was spent in the United States. Though we invest abroad as
well, the mother lode of opportunity resides in America.

Š

In a year in which most equity managers found it impossible to outperform the S&P 500, both Todd
Combs and Ted Weschler handily did so. Each now runs a portfolio exceeding $7 billion. They’ve earned
it.
I must again confess that their investments outperformed mine. (Charlie says I should add “by a lot.”) If
such humiliating comparisons continue, I’ll have no choice but to cease talking about them.
Todd and Ted have also created significant value for you in several matters unrelated to their portfolio
activities. Their contributions are just beginning: Both men have Berkshire blood in their veins.

Š

Berkshire’s yearend employment – counting Heinz – totaled a record 330,745, up 42,283 from last year.
The increase, I must admit, included one person at our Omaha home office. (Don’t panic: The
headquarters gang still fits comfortably on one floor.)

Š

Berkshire increased its ownership interest last year in each of its “Big Four” investments – American
Express, Coca-Cola, IBM and Wells Fargo. We purchased additional shares of Wells Fargo (increasing
our ownership to 9.2% versus 8.7% at yearend 2012) and IBM (6.3% versus 6.0%). Meanwhile, stock
repurchases at Coca-Cola and American Express raised our percentage ownership. Our equity in CocaCola grew from 8.9% to 9.1% and our interest in American Express from 13.7% to 14.2%. And, if you
think tenths of a percent aren’t important, ponder this math: For the four companies in aggregate, each
increase of one-tenth of a percent in our share of their equity raises Berkshire’s share of their annual
earnings by $50 million.

5

The four companies possess excellent businesses and are run by managers who are both talented and
shareholder-oriented. At Berkshire, we much prefer owning a non-controlling but substantial portion of a
wonderful company to owning 100% of a so-so business; it’s better to have a partial interest in the Hope
diamond than to own all of a rhinestone.
Going by our yearend holdings, our portion of the “Big Four’s” 2013 earnings amounted to $4.4 billion. In
the earnings we report to you, however, we include only the dividends we receive – about $1.4 billion last
year. But make no mistake: The $3 billion of their earnings we don’t report is every bit as valuable to us as
the portion Berkshire records.
The earnings that these four companies retain are often used for repurchases of their own stock – a move
that enhances our share of future earnings – as well as for funding business opportunities that usually turn
out to be advantageous. All that leads us to expect that the per-share earnings of these four investees will
grow substantially over time. If they do, dividends to Berkshire will increase and, even more important,
our unrealized capital gains will, too. (For the four, unrealized gains already totaled $39 billion at
yearend.)
Our flexibility in capital allocation – our willingness to invest large sums passively in non-controlled
businesses – gives us a significant advantage over companies that limit themselves to acquisitions they can
operate. Woody Allen stated the general idea when he said: “The advantage of being bi-sexual is that it
doubles your chances for a date on Saturday night.” Similarly, our appetite for either operating businesses
or passive investments doubles our chances of finding sensible uses for our endless gusher of cash.
************
Late in 2009, amidst the gloom of the Great Recession, we agreed to buy BNSF, the largest purchase in
Berkshire’s history. At the time, I called the transaction an “all-in wager on the economic future of the United
States.”
That kind of commitment was nothing new for us: We’ve been making similar wagers ever since Buffett
Partnership Ltd. acquired control of Berkshire in 1965. For good reason, too. Charlie and I have always considered
a “bet” on ever-rising U.S. prosperity to be very close to a sure thing.
Indeed, who has ever benefited during the past 237 years by betting against America? If you compare our
country’s present condition to that existing in 1776, you have to rub your eyes in wonder. And the dynamism
embedded in our market economy will continue to work its magic. America’s best days lie ahead.
With this tailwind working for us, Charlie and I hope to build Berkshire’s per-share intrinsic value by
(1) constantly improving the basic earning power of our many subsidiaries; (2) further increasing their earnings
through bolt-on acquisitions; (3) benefiting from the growth of our investees; (4) repurchasing Berkshire shares
when they are available at a meaningful discount from intrinsic value; and (5) making an occasional large
acquisition. We will also try to maximize results for you by rarely, if ever, issuing Berkshire shares.
Those building blocks rest on a rock-solid foundation. A century hence, BNSF and MidAmerican Energy
will still be playing major roles in our economy. Insurance will concomitantly be essential for both businesses and
individuals – and no company brings greater human and financial resources to that business than Berkshire.
Moreover, we will always maintain supreme financial strength, operating with at least $20 billion of cash
equivalents and never incurring material amounts of short-term obligations. As we view these and other strengths,
Charlie and I like your company’s prospects. We feel fortunate to be entrusted with its management.

6

Intrinsic Business Value
As much as Charlie and I talk about intrinsic business value, we cannot tell you precisely what that
number is for Berkshire shares (nor, in fact, for any other stock). In our 2010 annual report, however, we laid out
the three elements – one of them qualitative – that we believe are the keys to a sensible estimate of Berkshire’s
intrinsic value. That discussion is reproduced in full on pages 109 - 110.
Here is an update of the two quantitative factors: In 2013 our per-share investments increased 13.6% to
$129,253 and our pre-tax earnings from businesses other than insurance and investments increased 12.8% to $9,116
per share.
Since 1970, our per-share investments have increased at a rate of 19.3% compounded annually, and our
earnings figure has grown at a 20.6% clip. It is no coincidence that the price of Berkshire stock over the 43-year
period has increased at a rate very similar to that of our two measures of value. Charlie and I like to see gains in
both sectors, but we will most strongly focus on building operating earnings.
************
Now, let’s examine the four major sectors of our operations. Each has vastly different balance sheet and
income characteristics from the others. So we’ll present them as four separate businesses, which is how Charlie and
I view them (though there are important and enduring advantages to having them all under one roof). Our goal is to
provide you with the information we would wish to have if our positions were reversed, with you being the
reporting manager and we the absentee shareholders. (But don’t get any ideas!)
Insurance
“Our investment in the insurance companies reflects a first major step in our efforts to achieve a more
diversified base of earning power.”
— 1967 Annual Report
Let’s look first at insurance, Berkshire’s core operation and the engine that has consistently propelled our
expansion since that 1967 report was published.
Property-casualty (“P/C”) insurers receive premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases, such
as those arising from certain workers’ compensation accidents, payments can stretch over decades. This collectnow, pay-later model leaves P/C companies holding large sums – money we call “float” – that will eventually go to
others. Meanwhile, insurers get to invest this float for their benefit. Though individual policies and claims come
and go, the amount of float an insurer holds usually remains fairly stable in relation to premium volume.
Consequently, as our business grows, so does our float. And how we have grown, as the following table shows:
Year

Float (in $ millions)

1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2013

$

39
237
1,632
27,871
65,832
77,240

Further gains in float will be tough to achieve. On the plus side, GEICO’s float will almost certainly grow.
In National Indemnity’s reinsurance division, however, we have a number of run-off contracts whose float drifts
downward. If we do experience a decline in float at some future time, it will be very gradual – at the outside no
more than 3% in any year. The nature of our insurance contracts is such that we can never be subject to immediate
demands for sums that are large compared to our cash resources. (In this respect, property-casualty insurance
differs in an important way from certain forms of life insurance.)

7

If our premiums exceed the total of our expenses and eventual losses, we register an underwriting profit
that adds to the investment income our float produces. When such a profit is earned, we enjoy the use of free
money – and, better yet, get paid for holding it.
Unfortunately, the wish of all insurers to achieve this happy result creates intense competition, so vigorous