years when general inflation runs considerably lower.  If premium 
growth meanwhile materially lags that 10% rate, underwriting 
losses will mount, though the industry’s tendency to underreserve 
when business turns bad may obscure their size for a time.  As 
the table shows, the industry’s underwriting loss grew in 1988.  
This trend is almost certain to continue - and probably will 
accelerate - for at least two more years.

     The property-casualty insurance industry is not only 
subnormally profitable, it is subnormally popular. (As Sam 
Goldwyn philosophized: “In life, one must learn to take the 
bitter with the sour.”) One of the ironies of business is that 
many relatively-unprofitable industries that are plagued by 
inadequate prices habitually find themselves beat upon by irate 
customers even while other, hugely profitable industries are 
spared complaints, no matter how high their prices.  

     Take the breakfast cereal industry, whose return on invested 
capital is more than double that of the auto insurance industry 
(which is why companies like Kellogg and General Mills sell at 
five times book value and most large insurers sell close to 
book).  The cereal companies regularly impose price increases, 
few of them related to a significant jump in their costs.  Yet 
not a peep is heard from consumers.  But when auto insurers raise 
prices by amounts that do not even match cost increases, 
customers are outraged.  If you want to be loved, it’s clearly 
better to sell high-priced corn flakes than low-priced auto 
insurance.

     The antagonism that the public feels toward the industry can 
have serious consequences: Proposition 103, a California 
initiative passed last fall, threatens to push auto insurance 
prices down sharply, even though costs have been soaring.  The 
price cut has been suspended while the courts review the 
initiative, but the resentment that brought on the vote has not 
been suspended: Even if the initiative is overturned, insurers 
are likely to find it tough to operate profitably in California. 
(Thank heavens the citizenry isn’t mad at bonbons: If Proposition 
103 applied to candy as well as insurance, See’s would be forced 
to sell its product for $5.76 per pound. rather than the $7.60 we 
charge - and would be losing money by the bucketful.)

     The immediate direct effects on Berkshire from the 
initiative are minor, since we saw few opportunities for profit 
in the rate structure that existed in California prior to the 
vote.  However, the forcing down of prices would seriously affect 
GEICO, our 44%-owned investee, which gets about 10% of its 
premium volume from California.  Even more threatening to GEICO 
is the possibility that similar pricing actions will be taken in 
other states, through either initiatives or legislation.

     If voters insist that auto insurance be priced below cost, 
it eventually must be sold by government.  Stockholders can 
subsidize policyholders for a short period, but only taxpayers 
can subsidize them over the long term.  At most property-casualty 
companies, socialized auto insurance would be no disaster for 
shareholders.  Because of the commodity characteristics of the 
industry, most insurers earn mediocre returns and therefore have 
little or no economic goodwill to lose if they are forced by 
government to leave the auto insurance business.  But GEICO, 
because it is a low-cost producer able to earn high returns on 
equity, has a huge amount of economic goodwill at risk.  In turn, 
so do we.

     At Berkshire, in 1988, our premium volume continued to fall, 
and in 1989 we will experience a large decrease for a special 
reason: The contract through which we receive 7% of the business 
of Fireman’s Fund expires on August 31.  At that time, we will 
return to Fireman’s Fund the unearned premiums we hold that 
relate to the contract.  This transfer of funds will show up in 
our “premiums written” account as a negative $85 million or so 
and will make our third-quarter figures look rather peculiar.  
However, the termination of this contract will not have a 
significant effect on profits.

     Berkshire’s underwriting results continued to be excellent 
in 1988.  Our combined ratio (on a statutory basis and excluding 
structured settlements and financial reinsurance) was 104.  
Reserve development was favorable for the second year in a row, 
after a string of years in which it was very unsatisfactory.  
Details on both underwriting and reserve development appear on 
pages 36-38.

     Our insurance volume over the next few years is likely to 
run very low, since business with a reasonable potential for 
profit will almost certainly be scarce.  So be it.  At Berkshire, 
we simply will not write policies at rates that carry the 
expectation of economic loss.  We encounter enough troubles when 
we expect a gain.

     Despite - or perhaps because of - low volume, our profit 
picture during the next few years is apt to be considerably 
brighter than the industry’s.  We are sure to have an exceptional 
amount of float compared to premium volume, and that augurs well 
for profits.  In 1989 and 1990 we expect our float/premiums 
ratio to be at least three times that of the typical 
property/casualty company.  Mike Goldberg, with special help from 
Ajit Jain, Dinos Iordanou, and the National Indemnity managerial 
team, has positioned us well in that respect.

     At some point - we don’t know when - we will be deluged with 
insurance business.  The cause will probably be some major 
physical or financial catastrophe.  But we could also experience 
an explosion in business, as we did in 1985, because large and 
increasing underwriting losses at other companies coincide with 
their recognition that they are far underreserved. in the 
meantime, we will retain our talented professionals, protect our 
capital, and try not to make major mistakes.
Marketable Securities
In selecting marketable securities for our insurance 
companies, we can choose among five major categories: (1) long-
term common stock investments, (2) medium-term fixed-income 
securities, (3) long-term fixed-income securities, (4) short-term 
cash equivalents, and (5) short-term arbitrage commitments.

     We have no particular bias when it comes to choosing from 
these categories. We just continuously search among them for the 
highest after-tax returns as measured by “mathematical 
expectation,” limiting ourselves always to investment 
alternatives we think we understand.  Our criteria have nothing 
to do with maximizing immediately reportable earnings; our goal, 
rather, is to maximize eventual net worth.
o
Below we list our common stock holdings having a value over 
$100 million, not including arbitrage commitments, which will be 
discussed later.  A small portion of these investments belongs to 
subsidiaries of which Berkshire owns less than 100%.
Shares   Company                                    Cost       Market
   ------   -------                                 ----------  ----------
                                                        (000s omitted)
3,000,000  Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ..............  $517,500   $1,086,750
14,172,500  The Coca-Cola Company .................   592,540      632,448
 2,400,000  Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
               Corporation Preferred* .............    71,729      121,200
 6,850,000  GEICO Corporation .....................    45,713      849,400
 1,727,765  The Washington Post Company ...........     9,731      364,126
*Although  nominally a preferred stock, this security is 
 financially equivalent to a common stock.
Our permanent holdings - Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., GEICO 
Corporation, and The Washington Post Company - remain unchanged.  
Also unchanged is our unqualified admiration of their 
managements: Tom Murphy and Dan Burke at Cap Cities, Bill Snyder 
and Lou Simpson at GEICO, and Kay Graham and Dick Simmons at The 
Washington Post.  Charlie and I appreciate enormously the talent 
and integrity these managers bring to their businesses.

     Their performance, which we have observed at close range, 
contrasts vividly with that of many CEOs, which we have 
fortunately observed from a safe distance.  Sometimes these CEOs 
clearly do not belong in their jobs; their positions, 
nevertheless, are usually secure.  The supreme irony of business 
management is that it is far easier for an inadequate CEO to keep 
his job than it is for an inadequate subordinate.

     If a secretary, say, is hired for a job that requires typing 
ability of at least 80 words a minute and turns out to be capable 
of only 50 words a minute, she will lose her job in no time.  
There is a logical standard for this job; performance is easily 
measured; and if you can’t make the grade, you’re out.  
Similarly, if new sales people fail to generate sufficient 
business quickly enough, they will be let go.  Excuses will not 
be accepted as a substitute for orders.

     However, a CEO who doesn’t perform is frequently carried 
indefinitely.  One reason is that performance standards for his 
job seldom exist.  When they do, they are often fuzzy or they may 
be waived or explained away, even when the performance shortfalls 
are major and repeated.  At too many companies, the boss shoots 
the arrow of managerial performance and then hastily paints the 
bullseye around the spot where it lands.

     Another important, but seldom recognized, distinction 
between the boss and the foot soldier is that the CEO has no 
immediate superior whose performance is itself getting measured.  
The sales manager who retains a bunch of lemons in his sales 
force will soon be in hot water himself.  It is in his immediate 
self-interest to promptly weed out his hiring mistakes.  
Otherwise, he himself may be weeded out.  An office manager who 
has hired inept secretaries faces the same imperative.