sell - should you ever want to - in the same kind of market.  We 
will work to keep it in existence.

     One of the ironies of the stock market is the emphasis on 
activity.  Brokers, using terms such as “marketability” and 
“liquidity”, sing the praises of companies with high share 
turnover (those who cannot fill your pocket will confidently fill 
your ear).  But investors should understand that what is good for 
the croupier is not good for the customer.  A hyperactive stock 
market is the pickpocket of enterprise.

     For example, consider a typical company earning, say, 12% on 
equity.  Assume a very high turnover rate in its shares of 100% 
per year.  If a purchase and sale of the stock each extract 
commissions of 1% (the rate may be much higher on low-priced 
stocks) and if the stock trades at book value, the owners of our 
hypothetical company will pay, in aggregate, 2% of the company’s 
net worth annually for the privilege of transferring ownership.  
This activity does nothing for the earnings of the business, and 
means that 1/6 of them are lost to the owners through the 
“frictional” cost of transfer. (And this calculation does not 
count option trading, which would increase frictional costs still 
further.)

     All that makes for a rather expensive game of musical 
chairs.  Can you imagine the agonized cry that would arise if a 
governmental unit were to impose a new 16 2/3% tax on earnings of 
corporations or investors?  By market activity, investors can 
impose upon themselves the equivalent of such a tax.

     Days when the market trades 100 million shares (and that 
kind of volume, when over-the-counter trading is included, is 
today abnormally low) are a curse for owners, not a blessing - 
for they mean that owners are paying twice as much to change 
chairs as they are on a 50-million-share day.  If 100 million-
share days persist for a year and the average cost on each 
purchase and sale is 15 cents a share, the chair-changing tax for 
investors in aggregate would total about $7.5 billion - an amount 
roughly equal to the combined 1982 profits of Exxon, General 
Motors, Mobil and Texaco, the four largest companies in the 
Fortune 500.

     These companies had a combined net worth of $75 billion at 
yearend 1982 and accounted for over 12% of both net worth and net 
income of the entire Fortune 500 list.  Under our assumption 
investors, in aggregate, every year forfeit all earnings from 
this staggering sum of capital merely to satisfy their penchant 
for “financial flip-flopping”.  In addition, investment 
management fees of over $2 billion annually - sums paid for 
chair-changing advice - require the forfeiture by investors of 
all earnings of the five largest banking organizations (Citicorp, 
Bank America, Chase Manhattan, Manufacturers Hanover and J. P. 
Morgan).  These expensive activities may decide who eats the pie, 
but they don’t enlarge it.

     (We are aware of the pie-expanding argument that says that 
such activities improve the rationality of the capital allocation 
process.  We think that this argument is specious and that, on 
balance, hyperactive equity markets subvert rational capital 
allocation and act as pie shrinkers.  Adam Smith felt that all 
noncollusive acts in a free market were guided by an invisible 
hand that led an economy to maximum progress; our view is that 
casino-type markets and hair-trigger investment management act as 
an invisible foot that trips up and slows down a forward-moving 
economy.)

     Contrast the hyperactive stock with Berkshire.  The bid-and-
ask spread in our stock currently is about 30 points, or a little 
over 2%.  Depending on the size of the transaction, the 
difference between proceeds received by the seller of Berkshire 
and cost to the buyer may range downward from 4% (in trading 
involving only a few shares) to perhaps 1 1/2% (in large trades 
where negotiation can reduce both the market-maker’s spread and 
the broker’s commission).  Because most Berkshire shares are 
traded in fairly large transactions, the spread on all trading 
probably does not average more than 2%.

     Meanwhile, true turnover in Berkshire stock (excluding 
inter-dealer transactions, gifts and bequests) probably runs 3% 
per year.  Thus our owners, in aggregate, are paying perhaps 
6/100 of 1% of Berkshire’s market value annually for transfer 
privileges.  By this very rough estimate, that’s $900,000 - not a 
small cost, but far less than average.  Splitting the stock would 
increase that cost, downgrade the quality of our shareholder 
population, and encourage a market price less consistently 
related to intrinsic business value.  We see no offsetting 
advantages.
Miscellaneous
Last year in this section I ran a small ad to encourage 
acquisition candidates.  In our communications businesses we tell 
our advertisers that repetition is a key to results (which it 
is), so we will again repeat our acquisition criteria.

     We prefer:
        (1) large purchases (at least $5 million of after-tax 
            earnings),
        (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
            projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
            “turn-around” situations),
        (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
            employing little or no debt,
        (4) management in place (we can’t supply it),
        (5) simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we 
            won’t understand it),
        (6) an offering price (we don’t want to waste our time or 
            that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
            about a transaction when price is unknown).

     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we’re interested.  We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuance of stock when we 
receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  We 
invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people 
with whom we have done business in the past.  For the right 
business - and the right people - we can provide a good home.

                         *  *  *  *  *

     About 96.4% of all eligible shares participated in our 1983 
shareholder-designated contributions program.  The total 
contributions made pursuant to this program - disbursed in the 
early days of 1984 but fully expensed in 1983 - were $3,066,501, 
and 1353 charities were recipients.  Although the response 
measured by the percentage of shares participating was 
extraordinarily good, the response measured by the percentage of 
holders participating was not as good.  The reason may well be 
the large number of new shareholders acquired through the merger 
and their lack of familiarity with the program.  We urge new 
shareholders to read the description of the program on pages 52-
53.
If you wish to participate in future programs, we strongly 
urge that you immediately make sure that your shares are 
registered in the actual owner’s name, not in “street” or nominee 
name.  Shares not so registered on September 28, 1984 will not be 
eligible for any 1984 program.
*  *  *  *  *

     The Blue Chip/Berkshire merger went off without a hitch.  
Less than one-tenth of 1% of the shares of each company voted 
against the merger, and no requests for appraisal were made.  In 
1983, we gained some tax efficiency from the merger and we expect 
to gain more in the future.

     One interesting sidelight to the merger: Berkshire now has 
1,146,909 shares outstanding compared to 1,137,778 shares at the 
beginning of fiscal 1965, the year present management assumed 
responsibility.  For every 1% of the company you owned at that 
time, you now would own .99%. Thus, all of today’s assets - the 
News, See’s, Nebraska Furniture Mart, the Insurance Group, $1.3 
billion in marketable stocks, etc. - have been added to the 
original textile assets with virtually no net dilution to the 
original owners.

     We are delighted to have the former Blue Chip shareholders 
join us.  To aid in your understanding of Berkshire Hathaway, we 
will be glad to send you the Compendium of Letters from the 
Annual Reports of 1977-1981, and/or the 1982 Annual report.  
Direct your request to the Company at 1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, 
Nebraska 68131.


                                        Warren E. Buffett
March 14, 1984                          Chairman of the Board
