something
investor, able 
to understand business economics and to find five to ten sensibly-
priced companies that possess important long-term competitive 
advantages, conventional diversification makes no sense for you.  
It is apt simply to hurt your results and increase your risk.  I 
cannot understand why an investor of that sort elects to put money 
into a business that is his 20th favorite rather than simply adding 
that money to his top choices - the businesses he understands best 
and that present the least risk, along with the greatest profit 
potential.  In the words of the prophet Mae West:  "Too much of a 
good thing can be wonderful."
Corporate Governance
At our annual meetings, someone usually asks "What happens to 
this place if you get hit by a truck?"  I'm glad they are still 
asking the question in this form.  It won't be too long before the 
query becomes:  "What happens to this place if you
don't
get hit by 
a truck?"

     Such questions, in any event, raise a reason for me to discuss 
corporate governance, a hot topic during the past year.  In 
general, I believe that directors have stiffened their spines 
recently and that shareholders are now being treated somewhat more 
like true owners than was the case not long ago.  Commentators on 
corporate governance, however, seldom make any distinction among 
three fundamentally different manager/owner situations that exist 
in publicly-held companies.  Though the legal responsibility of 
directors is identical throughout, their ability to effect change 
differs in each of the cases.  Attention usually falls on the first 
case, because it prevails on the corporate scene.  Since Berkshire 
falls into the second category, however, and will someday fall into 
the third, we will discuss all three variations.

     The first, and by far most common, board situation is one in 
which a corporation has no controlling shareholder.  In that case, 
I believe directors should behave as if there is a single absentee 
owner, whose long-term interest they should try to further in all 
proper ways.  Unfortunately, "long-term" gives directors a lot of 
wiggle room.  If they lack either integrity or the ability to think 
independently, directors can do great violence to shareholders 
while still claiming to be acting in their long-term interest.  But 
assume the board is functioning well and must deal with a 
management that is mediocre or worse.  Directors then have the 
responsibility for changing that management, just as an intelligent 
owner would do if he were present.  And if able but greedy managers 
over-reach and try to dip too deeply into the shareholders' 
pockets, directors must slap their hands.

     In this plain-vanilla case, a director who sees something he 
doesn't like should attempt to persuade the other directors of his 
views.  If he is successful, the board will have the muscle to make 
the appropriate change.  Suppose, though, that the unhappy director 
can't get other directors to agree with him.  He should then feel 
free to make his views known to the absentee owners.  Directors 
seldom do that, of course.  The temperament of many directors would 
in fact be incompatible with critical behavior of that sort.  But I 
see nothing improper in such actions, assuming the issues are 
serious.  Naturally, the complaining director can expect a vigorous 
rebuttal from the unpersuaded directors, a prospect that should 
discourage the dissenter from pursuing trivial or non-rational 
causes.

     For the boards just discussed, I believe the directors ought 
to be relatively few in number - say, ten or less - and ought to 
come mostly from the outside.  The outside board members should 
establish standards for the CEO's performance and should also 
periodically meet, without his being present, to evaluate his 
performance against those standards.

     The requisites for board membership should be business savvy, 
interest in the job, and owner-orientation.  Too often, directors 
are selected simply because they are prominent or add diversity to 
the board.  That practice is a mistake.  Furthermore, mistakes in 
selecting directors are particularly serious because appointments 
are so hard to undo:  The pleasant but vacuous director need never 
worry about job security.

     The second case is that existing at Berkshire, where the 
controlling owner is also the manager.  At some companies, this 
arrangement is facilitated by the existence of two classes of stock 
endowed with disproportionate voting power.  In these situations, 
it's obvious that the board does not act as an agent between owners 
and management and that the directors cannot effect change except 
through persuasion.  Therefore, if the owner/manager is mediocre or 
worse - or is over-reaching - there is little a director can do 
about it except object.  If the directors having no connections to 
the owner/manager make a unified argument, it may well have some 
effect.  More likely it will not.

     If change does not come, and the matter is sufficiently 
serious, the outside directors should resign.  Their resignation 
will signal their doubts about management, and it will emphasize 
that no outsider is in a position to correct the owner/manager's 
shortcomings.

     The third governance case occurs when there is a controlling 
owner who is not involved in management.  This case, examples of 
which are Hershey Foods and Dow Jones, puts the outside directors 
in a potentially useful position.  If they become unhappy with 
either the competence or integrity of the manager, they can go 
directly to the owner (who may also be on the board) and report 
their dissatisfaction.  This situation is ideal for an outside 
director, since he need make his case only to a single, presumably 
interested owner, who can forthwith effect change if the argument 
is persuasive.  Even so, the dissatisfied director has only that 
single course of action.  If he remains unsatisfied about a 
critical matter, he has no choice but to resign.

     Logically, the third case should be the most effective in 
insuring first-class management.  In the second case the owner is 
not going to fire himself, and in the first case, directors often 
find it very difficult to deal with mediocrity or mild over-
reaching.  Unless the unhappy directors can win over a majority of 
the board - an awkward social and logistical task, particularly if 
management's behavior is merely odious, not egregious - their hands 
are effectively tied.  In practice, directors trapped in situations 
of this kind usually convince themselves that by staying around 
they can do at least some good.  Meanwhile, management proceeds 
unfettered.

     In the third case, the owner is neither judging himself nor 
burdened with the problem of garnering a majority.  He can also 
insure that outside directors are selected who will bring useful 
qualities to the board.  These directors, in turn, will know that 
the good advice they give will reach the right ears, rather than 
being stifled by a recalcitrant management.  If the controlling 
owner is intelligent and self-confident, he will make decisions in 
respect to management that are meritocratic and pro-shareholder.  
Moreover - and this is critically important - he can readily 
correct any mistake he makes.

     At Berkshire we operate in the second mode now and will for as 
long as I remain functional.  My health, let me add, is excellent. 
For better or worse, you are likely to have me as an owner/manager 
for some time.

     After my death, all of my stock will go to my wife, Susie, 
should she survive me, or to a foundation if she dies before I do. 
In neither case will taxes and bequests require the sale of 
consequential amounts of stock.

     When my stock is transferred to either my wife or the 
foundation, Berkshire will enter the third governance mode, going 
forward with a vitally interested, but non-management, owner and 
with a management that must perform for that owner.  In preparation 
for that time, Susie was elected to the board a few years ago, and 
in 1993 our son, Howard, joined the board.  These family members 
will not be managers of the company in the future, but they will 
represent the controlling interest should anything happen to me.  
Most of our other directors are also significant owners of 
Berkshire stock, and each has a strong owner-orientation.  All in 
all, we're prepared for "the truck."
Shareholder-Designated Contributions
About 97% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 
1993 shareholder-designated contributions program.  Contributions 
made through the program were $9.4 million and 3,110 charities were 
recipients.

     Berkshire's practice in respect to discretionary philanthropy 
- as contrasted to its policies regarding contributions that are 
clearly related to the company's business activities - differs 
significantly from that of other publicly-held corporations.  
There, most corporate contributions are made pursuant to the wishes 
of the CEO (who often will be responding to social pressures), 
employees (through matching gifts), or directors (through matching 
gifts or requests they make of the CEO).

     At Berkshire, we believe that the company's money is the 
owners' money, just as it would be in a closely-held corporation, 
partnership, or sole proprietorship.  Therefore, if funds are to be 
given to causes unrelated to Berkshire's business activities, it is 
the charities favored by our owners that should receive them.  