936
921
1,288
7,758
999
8,315
$61,533

*This is our actual purchase price and also our tax basis; GAAP “cost” differs in a few cases
because of write-ups or write-downs that have been required.
We are delighted by the 2006 business performance of virtually all of our investees. Last year, we
told you that our expectation was that these companies, in aggregate, would increase their earnings by 6%
to 8% annually, a rate that would double their earnings every ten years or so. In 2006 American Express,

15

Coca-Cola, Procter & Gamble and Wells Fargo, our largest holdings, increased per-share earnings by 18%,
9%, 8% and 11%. These are stellar results, and we thank their CEOs.
************
We’ve come close to eliminating our direct foreign-exchange position, from which we realized
about $186 million in pre-tax profits in 2006 (earnings that were included in the Finance and Financial
Products table shown earlier). That brought our total gain since inception of this position in 2002 to $2.2
billion. Here’s a breakdown by currency:
Total Gain (Loss) in Millions
Australian dollar
British pound
Canadian dollar
Chinese yuan
Euro
Hong Kong dollar
Japanese yen

$247.1
287.2
398.3
(12.7)
839.2
(2.5)
1.9

Mexican peso
New Zealand dollar
Singapore dollar
South Korean won
Swiss franc
Taiwan dollar
Miscellaneous options

$106.1
102.6
(2.6)
261.3
9.6
(45.3)
22.9

We’ve made large indirect currency profits as well, though I’ve never tallied the precise amount.
For example, in 2002-2003 we spent about $82 million buying – of all things – Enron bonds, some of
which were denominated in Euros. Already we’ve received distributions of $179 million from these bonds,
and our remaining stake is worth $173 million. That means our overall gain is $270 million, part of which
came from the appreciation of the Euro that took place after our bond purchase.
When we first began making foreign exchange purchases, interest-rate differentials between the
U.S. and most foreign countries favored a direct currency position. But that spread turned negative in
2005. We therefore looked for other ways to gain foreign-currency exposure, such as the ownership of
foreign equities or of U.S. stocks with major earnings abroad. The currency factor, we should emphasize,
is not dominant in our selection of equities, but is merely one of many considerations.
As our U.S. trade problems worsen, the probability that the dollar will weaken over time continues
to be high. I fervently believe in real trade – the more the better for both us and the world. We had about
$1.44 trillion of this honest-to-God trade in 2006. But the U.S. also had $.76 trillion of pseudo-trade last
year – imports for which we exchanged no goods or services. (Ponder, for a moment, how commentators
would describe the situation if our imports were $.76 trillion – a full 6% of GDP – and we had no exports.)
Making these purchases that weren’t reciprocated by sales, the U.S. necessarily transferred ownership of its
assets or IOUs to the rest of the world. Like a very wealthy but self-indulgent family, we peeled off a bit of
what we owned in order to consume more than we produced.
The U.S. can do a lot of this because we are an extraordinarily rich country that has behaved
responsibly in the past. The world is therefore willing to accept our bonds, real estate, stocks and
businesses. And we have a vast store of these to hand over.
These transfers will have consequences, however. Already the prediction I made last year about
one fall-out from our spending binge has come true: The “investment income” account of our country –
positive in every previous year since 1915 – turned negative in 2006. Foreigners now earn more on their
U.S. investments than we do on our investments abroad. In effect, we’ve used up our bank account and
turned to our credit card. And, like everyone who gets in hock, the U.S. will now experience “reverse
compounding” as we pay ever-increasing amounts of interest on interest.
I want to emphasize that even though our course is unwise, Americans will live better ten or
twenty years from now than they do today. Per-capita wealth will increase. But our citizens will also be
forced every year to ship a significant portion of their current production abroad merely to service the cost
of our huge debtor position. It won’t be pleasant to work part of each day to pay for the over-consumption

16

of your ancestors. I believe that at some point in the future U.S. workers and voters will find this annual
“tribute” so onerous that there will be a severe political backlash. How that will play out in markets is
impossible to predict – but to expect a “soft landing” seems like wishful thinking.
************
I should mention that all of the direct currency profits we have realized have come from forward
contracts, which are derivatives, and that we have entered into other types of derivatives contracts as well.
That may seem odd, since you know of our expensive experience in unwinding the derivatives book at Gen
Re and also have heard me talk of the systemic problems that could result from the enormous growth in the
use of derivatives. Why, you may wonder, are we fooling around with such potentially toxic material?
The answer is that derivatives, just like stocks and bonds, are sometimes wildly mispriced. For
many years, accordingly, we have selectively written derivative contracts – few in number but sometimes
for large dollar amounts. We currently have 62 contracts outstanding. I manage them personally, and they
are free of counterparty credit risk. So far, these derivative contracts have worked out well for us,
producing pre-tax profits in the hundreds of millions of dollars (above and beyond the gains I’ve itemized
from forward foreign-exchange contracts). Though we will experience losses from time to time, we are
likely to continue to earn – overall – significant profits from mispriced derivatives.
************
I have told you that Berkshire has three outstanding candidates to replace me as CEO and that the
Board knows exactly who should take over if I should die tonight. Each of the three is much younger than
I. The directors believe it’s important that my successor have the prospect of a long tenure.
Frankly, we are not as well-prepared on the investment side of our business. There’s a history
here: At one time, Charlie was my potential replacement for investing, and more recently Lou Simpson has
filled that slot. Lou is a top-notch investor with an outstanding long-term record of managing GEICO’s
equity portfolio. But he is only six years younger than I. If I were to die soon, he would fill in
magnificently for a short period. For the long-term, though, we need a different answer.
At our October board meeting, we discussed that subject fully. And we emerged with a plan,
which I will carry out with the help of Charlie and Lou.
Under this plan, I intend to hire a younger man or woman with the potential to manage a very
large portfolio, who we hope will succeed me as Berkshire’s chief investment officer when the need for
someone to do that arises. As part of the selection process, we may in fact take on several candidates.
Picking the right person(s) will not be an easy task. It’s not hard, of course, to find smart people,
among them individuals who have impressive investment records. But there is far more to successful longterm investing than brains and performance that has recently been good.
Over time, markets will do extraordinary, even bizarre, things. A single, big mistake could wipe
out a long string of successes. We therefore need someone genetically programmed to recognize and avoid
serious risks, including those never before encountered. Certain perils that lurk in investment strategies
cannot be spotted by use of the models commonly employed today by financial institutions.
Temperament is also important. Independent thinking, emotional stability, and a keen
understanding of both human and institutional behavior is vital to long-term investment success. I’ve seen
a lot of very smart people who have lacked these virtues.
Finally, we have a special problem to consider: our ability to keep the person we hire. Being able
to list Berkshire on a resume would materially enhance the marketability of an investment manager. We
will need, therefore, to be sure we can retain our choice, even though he or she could leave and make much
more money elsewhere.

17

There are surely people who fit what we need, but they may be hard to identify. In 1979, Jack
Byrne and I felt we had found such a person in Lou Simpson. We then made an arrangement with him
whereby he would be paid well for sustained overperformance. Under this deal, he has earned large
amounts. Lou, however, could have left us long ago to manage far greater sums on more advantageous
terms. If money alone had been the object, that’s exactly what he would have done. But Lou never
considered such a move. We need to find a younger person or two made of the same stuff.