management.

     We remain unconventional in the degree to which we 
concentrate the investments of our insurance companies, including 
those in WPPSS bonds.  This concentration makes sense only 
because our insurance business is conducted from a position of 
exceptional financial strength.  For almost all other insurers, a 
comparable degree of concentration (or anything close to it) 
would be totally inappropriate.  Their capital positions are not 
strong enough to withstand a big error, no matter how attractive 
an investment opportunity might appear when analyzed on the basis 
of probabilities.

     With our financial strength we can own large blocks of a few 
securities that we have thought hard about and bought at 
attractive prices. (Billy Rose described the problem of over-
diversification: “If you have a harem of forty women, you never 
get to know any of them very well.”) Over time our policy of 
concentration should produce superior results, though these will 
be tempered by our large size.  When this policy produces a 
really bad year, as it must, at least you will know that our 
money was committed on the same basis as yours.

     We made the major part of our WPPSS investment at different 
prices and under somewhat different factual circumstances than 
exist at present.  If we decide to change our position, we will 
not inform shareholders until long after the change has been 
completed. (We may be buying or selling as you read this.) The 
buying and selling of securities is a competitive business, and 
even a modest amount of added competition on either side can cost 
us a great deal of money.  Our WPPSS purchases illustrate this 
principle.  From October, 1983 through June, 1984, we attempted 
to buy almost all the bonds that we could of Projects 1, 2, and 
3. Yet we purchased less than 3% of the bonds outstanding.  Had 
we faced even a few additional well-heeled investors, stimulated 
to buy because they knew we were, we could have ended up with a 
materially smaller amount of bonds, purchased at a materially 
higher price. (A couple of coat-tail riders easily could have 
cost us $5 million.) For this reason, we will not comment about 
our activities in securities - neither to the press, nor 
shareholders, nor to anyone else - unless legally required to do 
so.

     One final observation regarding our WPPSS purchases: we 
dislike the purchase of most long-term bonds under most 
circumstances and have bought very few in recent years.  That’s 
because bonds are as sound as a dollar - and we view the long-
term outlook for dollars as dismal.  We believe substantial 
inflation lies ahead, although we have no idea what the average 
rate will turn out to be.  Furthermore, we think there is a 
small, but not insignificant, chance of runaway inflation.

     Such a possibility may seem absurd, considering the rate to 
which inflation has dropped.  But we believe that present fiscal 
policy - featuring a huge deficit - is both extremely dangerous 
and difficult to reverse. (So far, most politicians in both 
parties have followed Charlie Brown’s advice: “No problem is so 
big that it can’t be run away from.”) Without a reversal, high 
rates of inflation may be delayed (perhaps for a long time), but 
will not be avoided.  If high rates materialize, they bring with 
them the potential for a runaway upward spiral.

     While there is not much to choose between bonds and stocks 
(as a class) when annual inflation is in the 5%-10% range, 
runaway inflation is a different story.  In that circumstance, a 
diversified stock portfolio would almost surely suffer an 
enormous loss in real value.  But bonds already outstanding would 
suffer far more.  Thus, we think an all-bond portfolio carries a 
small but unacceptable “wipe out” risk, and we require any 
purchase of long-term bonds to clear a special hurdle.  Only when 
bond purchases appear decidedly superior to other business 
opportunities will we engage in them.  Those occasions are likely 
to be few and far between.
Dividend Policy
Dividend policy is often reported to shareholders, but 
seldom explained.  A company will say something like, “Our goal 
is to pay out 40% to 50% of earnings and to increase dividends at 
a rate at least equal to the rise in the CPI”.  And that’s it - 
no analysis will be supplied as to why that particular policy is 
best for the owners of the business.  Yet, allocation of capital 
is crucial to business and investment management.  Because it is, 
we believe managers and owners should think hard about the 
circumstances under which earnings should be retained and under 
which they should be distributed.

     The first point to understand is that all earnings are not 
created equal.  In many businesses particularly those that have 
high asset/profit ratios - inflation causes some or all of the 
reported earnings to become ersatz.  The ersatz portion - let’s 
call these earnings “restricted” - cannot, if the business is to 
retain its economic position, be distributed as dividends.  Were 
these earnings to be paid out, the business would lose ground in 
one or more of the following areas: its ability to maintain its 
unit volume of sales, its long-term competitive position, its 
financial strength.  No matter how conservative its payout ratio, 
a company that consistently distributes restricted earnings is 
destined for oblivion unless equity capital is otherwise infused.

     Restricted earnings are seldom valueless to owners, but they 
often must be discounted heavily.  In effect, they are 
conscripted by the business, no matter how poor its economic 
potential. (This retention-no-matter-how-unattractive-the-return 
situation was communicated unwittingly in a marvelously ironic 
way by Consolidated Edison a decade ago.  At the time, a punitive 
regulatory policy was a major factor causing the company’s stock 
to sell as low as one-fourth of book value; i.e., every time a 
dollar of earnings was retained for reinvestment in the business, 
that dollar was transformed into only 25 cents of market value.  
But, despite this gold-into-lead process, most earnings were 
reinvested in the business rather than paid to owners.  
Meanwhile, at construction and maintenance sites throughout New 
York, signs proudly proclaimed the corporate slogan, “Dig We 
Must”.)

     Restricted earnings need not concern us further in this 
dividend discussion.  Let’s turn to the much-more-valued 
unrestricted variety.  These earnings may, with equal 
feasibility, be retained or distributed.  In our opinion, 
management should choose whichever course makes greater sense for 
the owners of the business.

     This principle is not universally accepted.  For a number of 
reasons managers like to withhold unrestricted, readily 
distributable earnings from shareholders - to expand the 
corporate empire over which the managers rule, to operate from a 
position of exceptional financial comfort, etc.  But we believe 
there is only one valid reason for retention.  Unrestricted 
earnings should be retained only when there is a reasonable 
prospect - backed preferably by historical evidence or, when 
appropriate, by a thoughtful analysis of the future - that
for 
every dollar retained by the corporation, at least one dollar of 
market value will be created for owners.
This will happen only 
if the capital retained produces incremental earnings equal to, 
or above, those generally available to investors.

     To illustrate, let’s assume that an investor owns a risk-
free 10% perpetual bond with one very unusual feature.  Each year 
the investor can elect either to take his 10% coupon in cash, or 
to reinvest the coupon in more 10% bonds with identical terms; 
i.e., a perpetual life and coupons offering the same cash-or-
reinvest option.  If, in any given year, the prevailing interest 
rate on long-term, risk-free bonds is 5%, it would be foolish for 
the investor to take his coupon in cash since the 10% bonds he 
could instead choose would be worth considerably more than 100 
cents on the dollar.  Under these circumstances, the investor 
wanting to get his hands on cash should take his coupon in 
additional bonds and then immediately sell them.  By doing that, 
he would realize more cash than if he had taken his coupon 
directly in cash.  Assuming all bonds were held by rational 
investors, no one would opt for cash in an era of 5% interest 
rates, not even those bondholders needing cash for living 
purposes.

     If, however, interest rates were 15%, no rational investor 
would want his money invested for him at 10%.  Instead, the 
investor would choose to take his coupon in cash, even if his 
personal cash needs were nil.  The opposite course - reinvestment 
of the coupon - would give an investor additional bonds with 
market value far less than the cash he could have elected.  If he 
should want 10% bonds, he can simply take the cash received 
and buy them in the market, where they will be available at a 
large discount.

     An analysis similar to that made by our hypothetical 
bondholder is appropriate for owners in thinking about whether a 
company’s unrestricted earnings should be retained or paid out.  
Of course, the analysis is much more difficult and subject to 
error because the rate earned on reinvested earnings is not a 