# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1992

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Our per-share book value increased 20.3% during 1992.  Over 
the last 28 years (that is, since present management took over) 
book value has grown from $19 to $7,745, or at a rate of 23.6% 
compounded annually.

     During the year, Berkshire's net worth increased by $1.52 
billion.  More than 98% of this gain came from earnings and 
appreciation of portfolio securities, with the remainder coming 
from the issuance of new stock.  These shares were issued as a 
result of our calling our convertible debentures for redemption 
on January 4, 1993, and of some holders electing to receive 
common shares rather than the cash that was their alternative.  
Most holders of the debentures who converted into common waited 
until January to do it, but a few made the move in December and 
therefore received shares in 1992.  To sum up what happened to 
the $476 million of bonds we had outstanding:  $25 million were 
converted into shares before yearend; $46 million were converted 
in January; and $405 million were redeemed for cash.  The 
conversions were made at $11,719 per share, so altogether we 
issued 6,106 shares.

     Berkshire now has 1,152,547 shares outstanding.  That 
compares, you will be interested to know, to 1,137,778 shares 
outstanding on October 1, 1964, the beginning of the fiscal year 
during which Buffett Partnership, Ltd. acquired control of the 
company.

     We have a firm policy about issuing shares of Berkshire, 
doing so only when we receive as much value as we give.  Equal 
value, however, has not been easy to obtain, since we have always 
valued our shares highly.  So be it:  We wish to increase 
Berkshire's size only when doing that also increases the wealth 
of its owners.

    Those two objectives do not necessarily go hand-in-hand as an 
amusing but value-destroying experience in our past illustrates. 
On that occasion, we had a significant investment in a bank 
whose management was hell-bent on expansion.  (Aren't they all?) 
When our bank wooed a smaller bank, its owner demanded a stock 
swap on a basis that valued the acquiree's net worth and earning 
power at over twice that of the acquirer's.  Our management - 
visibly in heat - quickly capitulated.  The owner of the acquiree 
then insisted on one other condition:  "You must promise me," he 
said in effect, "that once our merger is done and I have become a 
major shareholder, you'll never again make a deal this dumb."

     You will remember that our goal is to increase our per-share 
intrinsic value - for which our book value is a conservative, but 
useful, proxy - at a 15% annual rate.  This objective, however, 
cannot be attained in a smooth manner.  Smoothness is 
particularly elusive because of the accounting rules that apply 
to the common stocks owned by our insurance companies, whose 
portfolios represent a high proportion of Berkshire's net worth. 
Since 1979, generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) have 
required that these securities be valued at their market prices 
(less an adjustment for tax on any net unrealized appreciation) 
rather than at the lower of cost or market.  Run-of-the-mill 
fluctuations in equity prices therefore cause our annual results 
to gyrate, especially in comparison to those of the typical 
industrial company.

     To illustrate just how volatile our progress has been - and 
to indicate the impact that market movements have on short-term 
results - we show on the facing page our annual change in per-
share net worth and compare it with the annual results (including 
dividends) of the S&P 500.

     You should keep at least three points in mind as you 
evaluate this data.  The first point concerns the many businesses 
we operate whose annual earnings are unaffected by changes in 
stock market valuations.  The impact of these businesses on both 
our absolute and relative performance has changed over the years. 
Early on, returns from our textile operation, which then 
represented a significant portion of our net worth, were a major 
drag on performance, averaging far less than would have been the 
case if the money invested in that business had instead been 
invested in the S&P 500.  In more recent years, as we assembled 
our collection of exceptional businesses run by equally 
exceptional managers, the returns from our operating businesses 
have been high - usually well in excess of the returns achieved 
by the S&P.

     A second important factor to consider - and one that 
significantly hurts our relative performance - is that both the 
income and capital gains from our securities are burdened by a 
substantial corporate tax liability whereas the S&P returns are 
pre-tax.  To comprehend the damage, imagine that Berkshire had 
owned nothing other than the S&P index during the 28-year period 
covered. In that case, the tax bite would have caused our 
corporate performance to be appreciably below the record shown in 
the table for the S&P.  Under present tax laws, a gain for the 
S&P of 18% delivers a corporate holder of that index a return 
well short of 13%.  And this problem would be intensified if 
corporate tax rates were to rise.  This is a structural 
disadvantage we simply have to live with; there is no antidote 
for it.

     The third point incorporates two predictions:  Charlie 
Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and my partner, and I are 
virtually certain that the return over the next decade from an 
investment in the S&P index will be far less than that of the 
past decade, and we are dead certain that the drag exerted by 
Berkshire's expanding capital base will substantially reduce our 
historical advantage relative to the index.

     Making the first prediction goes somewhat against our grain: 
We've long felt that the only value of stock forecasters is to 
make fortune tellers look good.  Even now, Charlie and I continue 
to believe that short-term market forecasts are poison and should 
be kept locked up in a safe place, away from children and also 
from grown-ups who behave in the market like children.  However, 
it is clear that stocks cannot forever overperform their 
underlying businesses, as they have so dramatically done for some 
time, and that fact makes us quite confident of our forecast that 
the rewards from investing in stocks over the next decade will be 
significantly smaller than they were in the last.  Our second 
conclusion - that an increased capital base will act as an anchor 
on our relative performance - seems incontestable.  The only open 
question is whether we can drag the anchor along at some 
tolerable, though slowed, pace.

     We will continue to experience considerable volatility in 
our annual results.  That's assured by the general volatility of 
the stock market, by the concentration of our equity holdings in 
just a few companies, and by certain business decisions we have 
made, most especially our move to commit large resources to 
super-catastrophe insurance.  We not only accept this volatility 
but welcome it:  A tolerance for short-term swings improves our 
long-term prospects.  In baseball lingo, our performance 
yardstick is slugging percentage, not batting average.
The Salomon Interlude
Last June, I stepped down as Interim Chairman of Salomon Inc 
after ten months in the job.  You can tell from Berkshire's 1991-
92 results that the company didn't miss me while I was gone.  But 
the reverse isn't true:  I missed Berkshire and am delighted to 
be back full-time.  There is no job in the world that is more fun 
than running Berkshire and I count myself lucky to be where I am.

     The Salomon post, though far from fun, was interesting and 
worthwhile:  In Fortune's annual survey of America's Most Admired 
Corporations, conducted last September, Salomon ranked second 
among 311 companies in the degree to which it improved its 
reputation.  Additionally, Salomon Brothers, the securities 
subsidiary of Salomon Inc, reported record pre-tax earnings last 
year - 34% above the previous high.

     Many people helped in the resolution of Salomon's problems 
and the righting of the firm, but a few clearly deserve special 
mention.  It is no exaggeration to say that without the combined 
efforts of Salomon executives Deryck Maughan, Bob Denham, Don 
Howard, and John Macfarlane, the firm very probably would not 
have survived.  In their work, these men were tireless, 
effective, supportive and selfless, and I will forever be 
grateful to them.

     Salomon's lead lawyer in its Government matters, Ron Olson 
of Munger, Tolles & Olson, was also key to our success in getting 
through this trouble.  The firm's problems were not only severe, 
but complex.  At least five authorities - the SEC, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, the U.S. Treasury, the U.S. Attorney 
for the Southern District of New York, and the Antitrust Division 
of the Department of Justice - had important concerns about 
Salomon.  If we were to resolve our problems in a coordinated and 
prompt manner, we needed a lawyer with exceptional legal, 
business and human skills.  Ron had them all.
Acquisitions
Of all our activities at Berkshire, the most exhilarating 
for Charlie and me is the acquisition of a business with 