we show in the table that follows.
Though far from foolproof, these transactions involve no credit risk and are conducted in
exceptionally liquid securities. We therefore finance the positions almost entirely with
borrowed money. As the assets are reduced, so also are the borrowings. The smaller
portfolio we now have means that in the near future our earnings in this category will decline
significantly. It was fun while it lasted, and at some point we’ll get another turn at bat.

•

A far less pleasant unwinding operation is taking place at Gen Re Securities, the trading and
derivatives operation we inherited when we purchased General Reinsurance.
When we began to liquidate Gen Re Securities in early 2002, it had 23,218 outstanding tickets
with 884 counterparties (some having names I couldn’t pronounce, much less
creditworthiness I could evaluate). Since then, the unit’s managers have been skillful and
diligent in unwinding positions. Yet, at yearend – nearly two years later – we still had 7,580
tickets outstanding with 453 counterparties. (As the country song laments, “How can I miss
you if you won’t go away?”)
The shrinking of this business has been costly. We’ve had pre-tax losses of $173 million in
2002 and $99 million in 2003. These losses, it should be noted, came from a portfolio of
contracts that – in full compliance with GAAP – had been regularly marked-to-market with
standard allowances for future credit-loss and administrative costs. Moreover, our liquidation
has taken place both in a benign market – we’ve had no credit losses of significance – and in
an orderly manner. This is just the opposite of what might be expected if a financial crisis
forced a number of derivatives dealers to cease operations simultaneously.
If our derivatives experience – and the Freddie Mac shenanigans of mind-blowing size and
audacity that were revealed last year – makes you suspicious of accounting in this arena,
consider yourself wised up. No matter how financially sophisticated you are, you can’t
possibly learn from reading the disclosure documents of a derivatives-intensive company
what risks lurk in its positions. Indeed, the more you know about derivatives, the less you
will feel you can learn from the disclosures normally proffered you. In Darwin’s words,
“Ignorance more frequently begets confidence than does knowledge.”
************
And now it’s confession time: I’m sure I could have saved you $100 million or so, pre-tax, if I
had acted more promptly to shut down Gen Re Securities. Both Charlie and I knew at the
time of the General Reinsurance merger that its derivatives business was unattractive.
Reported profits struck us as illusory, and we felt that the business carried sizable risks that
could not effectively be measured or limited. Moreover, we knew that any major problems
the operation might experience would likely correlate with troubles in the financial or
insurance world that would affect Berkshire elsewhere. In other words, if the derivatives
business were ever to need shoring up, it would commandeer the capital and credit of
Berkshire at just the time we could otherwise deploy those resources to huge advantage. (A
historical note: We had just such an experience in 1974 when we were the victim of a major
insurance fraud. We could not determine for some time how much the fraud would ultimately
cost us and therefore kept more funds in cash-equivalents than we normally would have.

15

Absent this precaution, we would have made larger purchases of stocks that were then
extraordinarily cheap.)
Charlie would have moved swiftly to close down Gen Re Securities – no question about that.
I, however, dithered. As a consequence, our shareholders are paying a far higher price than
was necessary to exit this business.
•

Though we include Gen Re’s sizable life and health reinsurance business in the “insurance”
sector, we show the results for Ajit Jain’s life and annuity business in this section. That’s
because this business, in large part, involves arbitraging money. Our annuities range from a
retail product sold directly on the Internet to structured settlements that require us to make
payments for 70 years or more to people severely injured in accidents.
We’ve realized some extra income in this business because of accelerated principal payments
we received from certain fixed-income securities we had purchased at discounts. This
phenomenon has ended, and earnings are therefore likely to be lower in this segment during
the next few years.

•

We have a $604 million investment in Value Capital, a partnership run by Mark Byrne, a
member of a family that has helped Berkshire over the years in many ways. Berkshire is a
limited partner in, and has no say in the management of, Mark’s enterprise, which specializes
in highly-hedged fixed-income opportunities. Mark is smart and honest and, along with his
family, has a significant investment in Value.
Because of accounting abuses at Enron and elsewhere, rules will soon be instituted that are
likely to require that Value’s assets and liabilities be consolidated on Berkshire’s balance
sheet. We regard this requirement as inappropriate, given that Value’s liabilities – which
usually are above $20 billion – are in no way ours. Over time, other investors will join us as
partners in Value. When enough do, the need for us to consolidate Value will disappear.

•

We have told you in the past about Berkadia, the partnership we formed three years ago with
Leucadia to finance and manage the wind-down of Finova, a bankrupt lending operation. The
plan was that we would supply most of the capital and Leucadia would supply most of the
brains. And that’s the way it has worked. Indeed, Joe Steinberg and Ian Cumming, who
together run Leucadia, have done such a fine job in liquidating Finova’s portfolio that the $5.6
billion guarantee we took on in connection with the transaction has been extinguished. The
unfortunate byproduct of this fast payoff is that our future income will be much reduced.
Overall, Berkadia has made excellent money for us, and Joe and Ian have been terrific
partners.

•

Our leasing businesses are XTRA (transportation equipment) and CORT (office furniture).
Both operations have had poor earnings during the past two years as the recession caused
demand to drop considerably more than was anticipated. They remain leaders in their fields,
and I expect at least a modest improvement in their earnings this year.

•

Through our Clayton purchase, we acquired a significant manufactured-housing finance
operation. Clayton, like others in this business, had traditionally securitized the loans it
originated. The practice relieved stress on Clayton’s balance sheet, but a by-product was the
“front-ending” of income (a result dictated by GAAP).
We are in no hurry to record income, have enormous balance-sheet strength, and believe that
over the long-term the economics of holding our consumer paper are superior to what we can
now realize through securitization. So Clayton has begun to retain its loans.
We believe it’s appropriate to finance a soundly-selected book of interest-bearing receivables
almost entirely with debt (just as a bank would). Therefore, Berkshire will borrow money to
finance Clayton’s portfolio and re-lend these funds to Clayton at our cost plus one percentage
16

point. This markup fairly compensates Berkshire for putting its exceptional creditworthiness
to work, but it still delivers money to Clayton at an attractive price.
In 2003, Berkshire did $2 billion of such borrowing and re-lending, with Clayton using much
of this money to fund several large purchases of portfolios from lenders exiting the business.
A portion of our loans to Clayton also provided “catch-up” funding for paper it had generated
earlier in the year from its own operation and had found difficult to securitize.
You may wonder why we borrow money while sitting on a mountain of cash. It’s because of
our “every tub on its own bottom” philosophy. We believe that any subsidiary lending money
should pay an appropriate rate for the funds needed to carry its receivables and should not be
subsidized by its parent. Otherwise, having a rich daddy can lead to sloppy decisions.
Meanwhile, the cash we accumulate at Berkshire is destined for business acquisitions or for
the purchase of securities that offer opportunities for significant profit. Clayton’s loan
portfolio will likely grow to at least $5 billion in not too many years and, with sensible credit
standards in place, should deliver significant earnings.
For simplicity’s sake, we include all of Clayton’s earnings in this sector, though a sizable
portion is derived from areas other than consumer finance.

Trading – Ordinary Income ...........................
Gen Re Securities ...........................................
Life and annuity operation..............................
Value Capital..................................................
Berkadia .........................................................
Leasing operations..........................................
Manufactured housing finance (Clayton) .......
Other...............................................................
Income before capital gains............................
Trading – Capital Gains..................................
Total ...............................................................
*
**

(in $ millions)
Pre-Tax Earnings
Interest-bearing Liabilities
2003
2002
2003
2002
$ 379
$ 553
$7,826
$13,762
(99)
(173)
8,041*
10,631*
99
83
2,331
1,568
31
61
18,238*
20,359*
101
115
525
2,175
34
34
482
503
37**
—
2,032
—
84
102
618
630
666
775
1,215
578
N.A.
N.A.
$1,881
$1,353

Includes all liabilities