By yearend 2007, the half dozen or so companies that had been the major players in this business had
all fallen into big trouble. The cause of their problems was captured long ago by Mae West: “I was Snow White,
but I drifted.”
The monolines (as the bond insurers are called) initially insured only tax-exempt bonds that were
low-risk. But over the years competition for this business intensified, and rates fell. Faced with the prospect of
stagnating or declining earnings, the monoline managers turned to ever-riskier propositions. Some of these
involved the insuring of residential mortgage obligations. When housing prices plummeted, the monoline
industry quickly became a basket case.
Early in the year, Berkshire offered to assume all of the insurance issued on tax-exempts that was on
the books of the three largest monolines. These companies were all in life-threatening trouble (though they said
otherwise.) We would have charged a 1 1⁄ 2% rate to take over the guarantees on about $822 billion of bonds. If
our offer had been accepted, we would have been required to pay any losses suffered by investors who owned
these bonds – a guarantee stretching for 40 years in some cases. Ours was not a frivolous proposal: For reasons
we will come to later, it involved substantial risk for Berkshire.
The monolines summarily rejected our offer, in some cases appending an insult or two. In the end,
though, the turndowns proved to be very good news for us, because it became apparent that I had severely
underpriced our offer.
Thereafter, we wrote about $15.6 billion of insurance in the secondary market. And here’s the punch
line: About 77% of this business was on bonds that were already insured, largely by the three aforementioned
monolines. In these agreements, we have to pay for defaults only if the original insurer is financially unable to do
so.
We wrote this “second-to-pay” insurance for rates averaging 3.3%. That’s right; we have been paid far
more for becoming the second to pay than the 1.5% we would have earlier charged to be the first to pay. In one
extreme case, we actually agreed to be fourth to pay, nonetheless receiving about three times the 1% premium
charged by the monoline that remains first to pay. In other words, three other monolines have to first go broke
before we need to write a check.
Two of the three monolines to which we made our initial bulk offer later raised substantial capital.
This, of course, directly helps us, since it makes it less likely that we will have to pay, at least in the near term,
any claims on our second-to-pay insurance because these two monolines fail. In addition to our book of
secondary business, we have also written $3.7 billion of primary business for a premium of $96 million. In
primary business, of course, we are first to pay if the issuer gets in trouble.
We have a great many more multiples of capital behind the insurance we write than does any other
monoline. Consequently, our guarantee is far more valuable than theirs. This explains why many sophisticated
investors have bought second-to-pay insurance from us even though they were already insured by another
monoline. BHAC has become not only the insurer of preference, but in many cases the sole insurer acceptable to
bondholders.
Nevertheless, we remain very cautious about the business we write and regard it as far from a sure
thing that this insurance will ultimately be profitable for us. The reason is simple, though I have never seen even
a passing reference to it by any financial analyst, rating agency or monoline CEO.

13

The rationale behind very low premium rates for insuring tax-exempts has been that defaults have
historically been few. But that record largely reflects the experience of entities that issued uninsured bonds.
Insurance of tax-exempt bonds didn’t exist before 1971, and even after that most bonds remained uninsured.
A universe of tax-exempts fully covered by insurance would be certain to have a somewhat different
loss experience from a group of uninsured, but otherwise similar bonds, the only question being how different.
To understand why, let’s go back to 1975 when New York City was on the edge of bankruptcy. At the time its
bonds – virtually all uninsured – were heavily held by the city’s wealthier residents as well as by New York
banks and other institutions. These local bondholders deeply desired to solve the city’s fiscal problems. So before
long, concessions and cooperation from a host of involved constituencies produced a solution. Without one, it
was apparent to all that New York’s citizens and businesses would have experienced widespread and severe
financial losses from their bond holdings.
Now, imagine that all of the city’s bonds had instead been insured by Berkshire. Would similar belttightening, tax increases, labor concessions, etc. have been forthcoming? Of course not. At a minimum, Berkshire
would have been asked to “share” in the required sacrifices. And, considering our deep pockets, the required
contribution would most certainly have been substantial.
Local governments are going to face far tougher fiscal problems in the future than they have to date.
The pension liabilities I talked about in last year’s report will be a huge contributor to these woes. Many cities
and states were surely horrified when they inspected the status of their funding at yearend 2008. The gap between
assets and a realistic actuarial valuation of present liabilities is simply staggering.
When faced with large revenue shortfalls, communities that have all of their bonds insured will be
more prone to develop “solutions” less favorable to bondholders than those communities that have uninsured
bonds held by local banks and residents. Losses in the tax-exempt arena, when they come, are also likely to be
highly correlated among issuers. If a few communities stiff their creditors and get away with it, the chance that
others will follow in their footsteps will grow. What mayor or city council is going to choose pain to local
citizens in the form of major tax increases over pain to a far-away bond insurer?
Insuring tax-exempts, therefore, has the look today of a dangerous business – one with similarities, in
fact, to the insuring of natural catastrophes. In both cases, a string of loss-free years can be followed by a
devastating experience that more than wipes out all earlier profits. We will try, therefore, to proceed carefully in
this business, eschewing many classes of bonds that other monolines regularly embrace.
************
The type of fallacy involved in projecting loss experience from a universe of non-insured bonds onto a
deceptively-similar universe in which many bonds are insured pops up in other areas of finance. “Back-tested”
models of many kinds are susceptible to this sort of error. Nevertheless, they are frequently touted in financial
markets as guides to future action. (If merely looking up past financial data would tell you what the future holds,
the Forbes 400 would consist of librarians.)
Indeed, the stupefying losses in mortgage-related securities came in large part because of flawed,
history-based models used by salesmen, rating agencies and investors. These parties looked at loss experience
over periods when home prices rose only moderately and speculation in houses was negligible. They then made
this experience a yardstick for evaluating future losses. They blissfully ignored the fact that house prices had
recently skyrocketed, loan practices had deteriorated and many buyers had opted for houses they couldn’t afford.
In short, universe “past” and universe “current” had very different characteristics. But lenders, government and
media largely failed to recognize this all-important fact.

14

Investors should be skeptical of history-based models. Constructed by a nerdy-sounding priesthood
using esoteric terms such as beta, gamma, sigma and the like, these models tend to look impressive. Too often,
though, investors forget to examine the assumptions behind the symbols. Our advice: Beware of geeks bearing
formulas.
************
A final post-script on BHAC: Who, you may wonder, runs this operation? While I help set policy, all
of the heavy lifting is done by Ajit and his crew. Sure, they were already generating $24 billion of float along
with hundreds of millions of underwriting profit annually. But how busy can that keep a 31-person group?
Charlie and I decided it was high time for them to start doing a full day’s work.
Investments
Because of accounting rules, we divide our large holdings of common stocks this year into two
categories. The table below, presenting the first category, itemizes investments that are carried on our balance
sheet at market value and that had a yearend value of more than $500 million.
12/31/08
Percentage of
Company
Owned

Shares

Company

151,610,700
200,000,000
84,896,273
30,009,591
130,272,500
3,947,554
91,941,010
22,111,966
11,262,000
227,307,000
75,145,426
19,944,300
1,727,765
304,392,068

American Express Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Coca-Cola Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .