four locations. The expenses of this transition are significant; 
nevertheless profits in 1989 held up well. It will be another 
year before costs of the move are fully behind us.

     Kirby's business was particularly strong last year, 
featuring large gains in export sales. International business has 
more than doubled in the last two years and quintupled in the 
past four; its share of unit sales has risen from 5% to 20%. Our 
largest capital expenditures in 1989 were at Kirby, in 
preparation for a major model change in 1990.

     Ralph's operations contribute about 40% of the total 
earnings of the non-insurance group whose results are shown on 
page 49. When we bought Scott Fetzer at the start of 1986, our 
acquisition of Ralph as a manager was fully as important as our 
acquisition of the businesses. In addition to generating 
extraordinary earnings, Ralph also manages capital extremely 
well. These abilities have produced funds for Berkshire that, in 
turn, have allowed us to make many other profitable commitments.

     And that completes our answer to the 1927 Yankees.
Insurance Operations
Shown below is an updated version of our usual table 
presenting key figures for the property-casualty insurance 
industry:
Statutory    
          Yearly Change    Combined Ratio    Yearly Change   Inflation Rate 
           in Premiums   After Policyholder   in Incurred      Measured by  
           Written (%)       Dividends         Losses (%)   GNP Deflator (%)
          -------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------
1981           3.8              106.0             6.5              9.6
1982           3.7              109.6             8.4              6.5
1983           5.0              112.0             6.8              3.8
1984           8.5              118.0            16.9              3.8
1985          22.1              116.3            16.1              3.0
1986          22.2              108.0            13.5              2.6
1987           9.4              104.6             7.8              3.1
1988           4.4              105.4             5.5              3.3
1989 (Est.)    2.1              110.4             8.7              4.2

Source: A.M. Best Co.


     The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: A 
ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
100 indicates a loss. When the investment income that an insurer 
earns from holding policyholders' funds ("the float") is taken 
into account, a combined ratio in the 107-111 range typically 
produces an overall breakeven result, exclusive of earnings on 
the funds provided by shareholders.

     For the reasons laid out in previous reports, we expect the 
industry's incurred losses to grow by about 10% annually, even in 
years when general inflation runs considerably lower. (Actually, 
over  the last 25 years, incurred  losses have  grown at a still 
faster rate, 11%.) If premium growth meanwhile materially lags 
that 10% rate, underwriting losses will mount, though the 
industry's tendency to underreserve when business turns bad may 
obscure their size for a time. 

     Last year we said the climb in the combined ratio was 
"almost certain to continue - and probably will accelerate - for 
at least two more years." This year we will not predict 
acceleration, but otherwise must repeat last year's forecast. 
Premium growth is running far below the 10% required annually. 
Remember also that a 10% rate would only stabilize the combined 
ratio, not bring it down.

     The increase in the combined ratio in 1989 was a little more 
than we had expected because catastrophes (led by Hurricane Hugo) 
were unusually severe. These abnormalities probably accounted for 
about two points of the increase. If 1990 is more of a "normal" 
year, the combined ratio should rise only minimally from the 
catastrophe-swollen base of 1989. In 1991, though, the ratio is 
apt to climb by a greater degree.

     Commentators frequently discuss the "underwriting cycle" and 
speculate about its next turn. If that term is used to connote 
rhythmic qualities, it is in our view a misnomer that leads to 
faulty thinking about the industry's fundamental economics.

     The term was appropriate some decades ago when the industry 
and regulators cooperated  to conduct the  business  in cartel  
fashion. At that  time, the combined ratio fluctuated 
rhythmically for two reasons, both related to lags. First, data 
from the past were analyzed and then used to set new "corrected" 
rates, which were subsequently put into effect by virtually all 
insurers. Second, the fact that almost all policies were then 
issued for a one-to three-year term - which meant that it took a 
considerable time for mispriced policies to expire - delayed the 
impact of new rates on revenues. These two lagged responses made 
combined ratios behave much like alternating current. Meanwhile, 
the absence of significant price competition guaranteed that 
industry profits, averaged out over the cycle, would be 
satisfactory.

     The cartel period is long gone. Now the industry has 
hundreds of participants selling a commodity-like product at 
independently-established prices. Such a configuration - whether 
the product being sold is steel or insurance policies - is 
certain to cause subnormal profitability in all circumstances but 
one: a shortage of usable capacity. Just how often these periods 
occur and how long they last determines the average profitability 
of the industry in question.

     In most industries, capacity is described in physical terms. 
In the insurance world, however, capacity is customarily 
described in financial terms; that is, it's considered 
appropriate for a company to write no more than X dollars of 
business if it has Y dollars of net worth. In practice, however, 
constraints of this sort have proven ineffective. Regulators, 
insurance brokers, and customers are all slow to discipline 
companies that strain their resources. They also acquiesce when 
companies grossly overstate their true capital. Hence, a company 
can write a great deal of business with very little capital if it 
is so inclined. At bottom, therefore, the amount of industry 
capacity at any particular moment primarily depends on the mental 
state of insurance managers. 

     All this understood, it is not very difficult to 
prognosticate the industry's profits. Good profits will be 
realized only when there is a shortage of capacity. Shortages 
will occur only when insurers are frightened. That happens rarely 
- and most assuredly is not happening now.

     Some analysts have argued that the more onerous taxes 
recently imposed on the insurance industry and 1989's 
catastrophes - Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake - 
will cause prices to strengthen significantly. We disagree. These 
adversities have not destroyed the eagerness of insurers to write 
business at present prices. Therefore, premium volume won't grow 
by 10% in 1990, which means the negative underwriting trend will 
not reverse.

     The industry will meantime say it needs higher prices to 
achieve profitability matching that of the average American 
business. Of course it does. So does the steel business. But 
needs and desires have nothing to do with the long-term 
profitability of industries. Instead, economic fundamentals 
determine the outcome. Insurance profitability will improve only 
when virtually all insurers are turning away business
despite
higher prices. And we're a long way from that point.

     Berkshire's premium volume may drop to $150 million or so in 
1990 (from a high of $1 billion in 1986), partly because our 
traditional business continues to shrink and partly because the 
contract under which we received 7% of the business of Fireman's 
Fund expired last August. Whatever the size of the drop, it will 
not disturb us. We have no interest in writing insurance that 
carries a mathematical expectation of loss; we experience enough 
disappointments doing transactions we believe to carry an 
expectation of profit.

     However, our appetite for appropriately-priced business is 
ample, as one tale from 1989 will tell. It concerns "CAT covers," 
which are reinsurance contracts that primary insurance companies 
(and also reinsurers themselves) buy to protect themselves 
against a single catastrophe, such as a tornado or hurricane, 
that produces losses from a large number of policies. In these 
contracts, the primary insurer might retain the loss from a 
single event up to a maximum of, say, $10 million, buying various 
layers of reinsurance above that level. When losses exceed the 
retained amount, the reinsurer typically pays 95% of the excess 
up to its contractual limit, with the primary insurer paying the 
remainder. (By requiring the primary insurer to keep 5% of each 
layer, the reinsurer leaves him with a financial stake in each 
loss settlement and guards against his throwing away the 
reinsurer's money.)

     CAT covers are usually one-year policies that also provide 
for one automatic reinstatement, which requires a primary insurer 
whose coverage has been exhausted by a catastrophe to buy a 
second cover for the balance of the year in question by paying 
another premium. This provision protects the primary company from 
being "bare" for even a brief period after a first catastrophic 
event. The duration of "an event" is usually limited by contract 
to any span of 72 hours designated by the primary company. Under 
this definition, a wide-spread storm, causing damage for three 
days, will be classified as a single event if it arises from a 
single climatic cause. If the storm lasts four days, however, the 
primary company will file a claim carving out the 72 consecutive 
hours during which it suffered the greatest damage. Losses that 
occurred outside that period will be treated as arising from a 
separate event.

     In 1989, two unusual things happened. First, Hurricane Hugo 
generated $4 billion or more of insured loss, at a pace, however, 