reporters’ mantra is: “If your mother says she loves you, check it out.” So now I have to back up my claim. At
the meeting, I will take on all comers in making 35-foot tosses of the World-Herald to a Clayton porch. Any
challenger whose paper lands closer to the doorstep than mine will receive a dilly bar. I’ve asked Dairy Queen to
supply several for the contest, though I doubt that any will be needed. We will have a large stack of papers. Grab
one. Fold it (no rubber bands). Take your best shot. Make my day.
At 8:30, a new Berkshire movie will be shown. An hour later, we will start the question-and-answer
period, which (with a break for lunch at the CenturyLink’s stands) will last until 3:30. After a short recess,
Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:45. If you decide to leave during the day’s question periods,
please do so while Charlie is talking.
The best reason to exit, of course, is to shop. We will help you do so by filling the 194,300-square-foot
hall that adjoins the meeting area with products from dozens of Berkshire subsidiaries. Last year, you did your
part, and most locations racked up record sales. In a nine-hour period, we sold 1,249 pairs of Justin boots, 11,254
pounds of See’s candy, 8,000 Quikut knives (that’s 15 knives per minute) and 6,126 pairs of Wells Lamont
gloves, a Marmon product whose very existence was news to me. (The product I focus on is money.) But you can
do better. Remember: Anyone who says money can’t buy happiness simply hasn’t shopped at our meeting.
Among the new exhibitors this year will be Brooks, our running-shoe company. Brooks has been
gobbling up market share and in 2011 had a sales gain of 34%, its tenth consecutive year of record volume. Drop
by and congratulate Jim Weber, the company’s CEO. And be sure to buy a couple of pairs of limited edition
“Berkshire Hathaway Running Shoes.”
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a
shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 44 of the 51 jurisdictions in which we
operate. (One supplemental point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as that given
certain groups.) Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you money. For
at least half of you, I believe we can.
Be sure to visit the Bookworm. It will carry more than 35 books and DVDs, including a couple of new
ones. I recommend MiTek, an informative history of one of our very successful subsidiaries. You’ll learn how my
interest in the company was originally piqued by my receiving in the mail a hunk of ugly metal whose purpose I
couldn’t fathom. Since we bought MiTek in 2001, it has made 33 “tuck-in” acquisitions, almost all successful. I
think you’ll also like a short book that Peter Bevelin has put together explaining Berkshire’s investment and
operating principles. It sums up what Charlie and I have been saying over the years in annual reports and at
annual meetings. Should you need to ship your book purchases, a shipping service will be available nearby.
If you are a big spender – or aspire to become one – visit Elliott Aviation on the east side of the Omaha
airport between noon and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday. There we will have a fleet of NetJets aircraft that will get your
pulse racing. Come by bus; leave by private jet. I’ll OK your credit.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. Airlines have sometimes jacked up prices
for the Berkshire weekend. If you are coming from far away, compare the cost of flying to Kansas City versus
Omaha. The drive between the two cities is about 2 1⁄ 2 hours, and it may be that you can save significant money,
particularly if you had planned to rent a car in Omaha. Spend the savings with us.
20

At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we
will again be having “Berkshire Weekend” discount pricing. Last year the store did $32.7 million of business
during its annual meeting sale, a volume that exceeds the yearly sales of most furniture stores. To obtain the
Berkshire discount, you must make your purchases between Tuesday, May 1st and Monday, May 7th inclusive,
and also present your meeting credential. The period’s special pricing will even apply to the products of several
prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but which, in the spirit of
our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their cooperation. NFM is open
from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Sunday. On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m.
to 8 p.m., NFM is having a picnic to which you are all invited.
At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholder-only events. The first will be a cocktail reception
from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Friday, May 4th. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, May 6th, from
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m. On Sunday, around 2 p.m., I will be clerking at
Borsheims, desperate to beat my sales figure from last year. So come take advantage of me. Ask me for my
“Crazy Warren” price.
We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, therefore,
shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 30th through Saturday, May 12th. During that period,
please identify yourself as a shareholder by presenting your meeting credentials or a brokerage statement that
shows you are a Berkshire holder.
On Sunday, in the mall outside of Borsheims, a blindfolded Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion,
will take on all comers – who will have their eyes wide open – in groups of six. Nearby, Norman Beck, a
remarkable magician from Dallas, will bewilder onlookers. Additionally, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon
Osberg, two of the world’s top bridge experts, available to play bridge with our shareholders on Sunday
afternoon. Two non-experts – Charlie and I – will also be at the tables.
Gorat’s and Piccolo’s will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 6th.
Both will be serving until 10 p.m., with Gorat’s opening at 1 p.m. and Piccolo’s opening at 4 p.m. These
restaurants are my favorites, and I will eat at both of them on Sunday evening. (Actuarial tables tell me that I can
consume another 12 million calories before my death. I’m terrified at the thought of leaving any of these behind,
so will be frontloading on Sunday.) Remember: To make a reservation at Gorat’s, call 402-551-3733 on April 1st
(but not before) and at Piccolo’s, call 402-342-9038. At Piccolo’s, show some class and order a giant root beer
float for dessert. Only sissies get the small one.
We will again have the same three financial journalists lead the question-and-answer period at the
meeting, asking Charlie and me questions that shareholders have submitted to them by e-mail. The journalists
and their e-mail addresses are: Carol Loomis, of Fortune, who may be e-mailed at cloomis@fortunemail.com;
Becky Quick, of CNBC, at BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com, and Andrew Ross Sorkin, of The New York Times,
at arsorkin@nytimes.com.
From the questions submitted, each journalist will choose the dozen or so he or she decides are the
most interesting and important. The journalists have told me your question has the best chance of being selected
if you keep it concise, avoid sending it in at the last moment, make it Berkshire-related and include no more than
two questions in any e-mail you send them. (In your e-mail, let the journalist know if you would like your name
mentioned if your question is selected.)
This year we are adding a second panel of three financial analysts who follow Berkshire. They are Cliff
Gallant of KBW, Jay Gelb of Barclays Capital and Gary Ransom of Dowling and Partners. These analysts will
bring their own Berkshire-specific questions and alternate with the journalists and the audience.
Charlie and I believe that all shareholders should have access to new Berkshire information simultaneously
and should also have adequate time to analyze it, which is why we try to issue financial information after the market
close on a Friday. We do not talk one-on-one to large institutional investors or analysts. Our new panel will let
analysts ask questions – perhaps even a few technical ones – in a manner that may be helpful to many shareholders.
21

Neither Charlie nor I will get so much as a clue about the questions to be asked. We know the