a new culture and then delivered on their commitment.
Achievements at our electric utilities have been equally impressive. In 1995, MidAmerican became the
major provider of electricity in Iowa. By judicious planning and a zeal for efficiency, the company has kept
electric prices unchanged since our purchase and has promised to hold them steady through 2013.
6

MidAmerican has maintained this extraordinary price stability while making Iowa number one among
all states in the percentage of its generation capacity that comes from wind. Since our purchase, MidAmerican’s
wind-based facilities have grown from zero to almost 20% of total capacity.
Similarly, when we purchased PacifiCorp in 2006, we moved aggressively to expand wind generation.
Wind capacity was then 33 megawatts. It’s now 794, with more coming. (Arriving at PacifiCorp, we found
“wind” of a different sort: The company had 98 committees that met frequently. Now there are 28. Meanwhile,
we generate and deliver considerably more electricity, doing so with 2% fewer employees.)
In 2008 alone, MidAmerican spent $1.8 billion on wind generation at our two operations, and today the
company is number one in the nation among regulated utilities in ownership of wind capacity. By the way,
compare that $1.8 billion to the $1.1 billion of pre-tax earnings of PacifiCorp (shown in the table as “Western”)
and Iowa. In our utility business, we spend all we earn, and then some, in order to fulfill the needs of our service
areas. Indeed, MidAmerican has not paid a dividend since Berkshire bought into the company in early 2000. Its
earnings have instead been reinvested to develop the utility systems our customers require and deserve. In
exchange, we have been allowed to earn a fair return on the huge sums we have invested. It’s a great partnership
for all concerned.
************
Our long-avowed goal is to be the “buyer of choice” for businesses – particularly those built and owned
by families. The way to achieve this goal is to deserve it. That means we must keep our promises; avoid
leveraging up acquired businesses; grant unusual autonomy to our managers; and hold the purchased companies
through thick and thin (though we prefer thick and thicker).
Our record matches our rhetoric. Most buyers competing against us, however, follow a different path.
For them, acquisitions are “merchandise.” Before the ink dries on their purchase contracts, these operators are
contemplating “exit strategies.” We have a decided advantage, therefore, when we encounter sellers who truly
care about the future of their businesses.
Some years back our competitors were known as “leveraged-buyout operators.” But LBO became a
bad name. So in Orwellian fashion, the buyout firms decided to change their moniker. What they did not change,
though, were the essential ingredients of their previous operations, including their cherished fee structures and
love of leverage.
Their new label became “private equity,” a name that turns the facts upside-down: A purchase of a
business by these firms almost invariably results in dramatic reductions in the equity portion of the acquiree’s
capital structure compared to that previously existing. A number of these acquirees, purchased only two to three
years ago, are now in mortal danger because of the debt piled on them by their private-equity buyers. Much of
the bank debt is selling below 70¢ on the dollar, and the public debt has taken a far greater beating. The privateequity firms, it should be noted, are not rushing in to inject the equity their wards now desperately need. Instead,
they’re keeping their remaining funds very private.
In the regulated utility field there are no large family-owned businesses. Here, Berkshire hopes to be
the “buyer of choice” of regulators. It is they, rather than selling shareholders, who judge the fitness of
purchasers when transactions are proposed.
There is no hiding your history when you stand before these regulators. They can – and do – call their
counterparts in other states where you operate and ask how you have behaved in respect to all aspects of the
business, including a willingness to commit adequate equity capital.

7

When MidAmerican proposed its purchase of PacifiCorp in 2005, regulators in the six new states we
would be serving immediately checked our record in Iowa. They also carefully evaluated our financing plans and
capabilities. We passed this examination, just as we expect to pass future ones.
There are two reasons for our confidence. First, Dave Sokol and Greg Abel are going to run any
businesses with which they are associated in a first-class manner. They don’t know of any other way to operate.
Beyond that is the fact that we hope to buy more regulated utilities in the future – and we know that our business
behavior in jurisdictions where we are operating today will determine how we are welcomed by new jurisdictions
tomorrow.
Insurance
Our insurance group has propelled Berkshire’s growth since we first entered the business in 1967. This
happy result has not been due to general prosperity in the industry. During the 25 years ending in 2007, return on
net worth for insurers averaged 8.5% versus 14.0% for the Fortune 500. Clearly our insurance CEOs have not
had the wind at their back. Yet these managers have excelled to a degree Charlie and I never dreamed possible in
the early days. Why do I love them? Let me count the ways.
At GEICO, Tony Nicely – now in his 48th year at the company after joining it when he was 18 –
continues to gobble up market share while maintaining disciplined underwriting. When Tony became CEO in
1993, GEICO had 2.0% of the auto insurance market, a level at which the company had long been stuck. Now we
have a 7.7% share, up from 7.2% in 2007.
The combination of new business gains and an improvement in the renewal rate on existing business
has moved GEICO into the number three position among auto insurers. In 1995, when Berkshire purchased
control, GEICO was number seven. Now we trail only State Farm and Allstate.
GEICO grows because it saves money for motorists. No one likes to buy auto insurance. But virtually
everyone likes to drive. So, sensibly, drivers look for the lowest-cost insurance consistent with first-class service.
Efficiency is the key to low cost, and efficiency is Tony’s specialty. Five years ago the number of policies per
employee was 299. In 2008, the number was 439, a huge increase in productivity.
As we view GEICO’s current opportunities, Tony and I feel like two hungry mosquitoes in a nudist
camp. Juicy targets are everywhere. First, and most important, our new business in auto insurance is now
exploding. Americans are focused on saving money as never before, and they are flocking to GEICO. In January
2009, we set a monthly record – by a wide margin – for growth in policyholders. That record will last exactly 28
days: As we go to press, it’s clear February’s gain will be even better.
Beyond this, we are gaining ground in allied lines. Last year, our motorcycle policies increased by
23.4%, which raised our market share from about 6% to more than 7%. Our RV and ATV businesses are also
growing rapidly, albeit from a small base. And, finally, we recently began insuring commercial autos, a big
market that offers real promise.
GEICO is now saving money for millions of Americans. Go to GEICO.com or call 1-800-847-7536
and see if we can save you money as well.
General Re, our large international reinsurer, also had an outstanding year in 2008. Some time back,
the company had serious problems (which I totally failed to detect when we purchased it in late 1998). By 2001,
when Joe Brandon took over as CEO, assisted by his partner, Tad Montross, General Re’s culture had further
deteriorated, exhibiting a loss of discipline in underwriting, reserving and expenses. After Joe and Tad took
charge, these problems were decisively and successfully addressed. Today General Re has regained its luster.
Last spring Joe stepped down, and Tad became CEO. Charlie and I are grateful to Joe for righting the ship and
are certain that, with Tad, General Re’s future is in the best of hands.

8

Reinsurance is a business of long-term promises, sometimes extending for fifty years or more. This
past year has retaught clients a crucial principle: A promise is no better than the person or institution making it.
That’s where General Re excels: It is the only reinsurer that is backed by an AAA corporation. Ben Franklin once
said, “It’s difficult for an empty sack to stand upright.” That’s no worry for General Re clients.
Our third major insurance operation is Ajit Jain’s reinsurance division, headquartered in Stamford and
staffed by only 31 employees. This may be one of the most remarkable businesses in the world, hard to
characterize but easy to admire.
From year to year, Ajit’s business is never the same. It features very large transactions, incredible
speed of execution and a willingness to quote on policies that leave others scratching their heads. When there is a