stocks, we look for first-class businesses accompanied by first-
class managements.
o
That leads right into a related lesson: Good jockeys will 
do well on good horses, but not on broken-down nags. Both 
Berkshire's textile business and Hochschild, Kohn had able and 
honest people running them. The same managers employed in a 
business with good economic characteristics would have achieved 
fine records. But they were never going to make any progress 
while running in quicksand. 

     I've said many times that when a management with a 
reputation for brilliance tackles a business with a reputation 
for bad economics, it is the reputation of the business that 
remains intact. I just wish I hadn't been so energetic in 
creating examples. My behavior has matched that admitted by  Mae 
West: "I was Snow White, but I drifted."
o
A further related lesson: Easy does it. After 25 years of 
buying and supervising a great variety of businesses, Charlie and 
I have
not
learned how to solve difficult business problems. What 
we have learned is to avoid them. To the extent we have been 
successful, it is because we concentrated on identifying one-foot 
hurdles that we could step over rather than because we acquired 
any ability to clear seven-footers.

     The finding may seem unfair, but in both business and 
investments it is usually far more profitable to simply stick 
with the easy and obvious than it is to resolve the difficult. On 
occasion, tough problems
must
be tackled as was the case when we 
started our Sunday paper in Buffalo. In other instances, a great 
investment opportunity occurs when a marvelous business 
encounters a one-time huge, but solvable, problem as was the case 
many years back at both American Express and GEICO. Overall, 
however, we've done better by avoiding dragons than by slaying 
them.
o
My most surprising discovery: the overwhelming importance in 
business of an unseen force that we might call "the institutional 
imperative." In business school, I was given no hint of the 
imperative's existence and I did not intuitively understand it 
when I entered the business world. I thought then that decent, 
intelligent, and experienced managers would automatically make 
rational business decisions. But I learned over time that isn't 
so. Instead, rationality frequently wilts when the institutional 
imperative comes into play.

     For example: (1) As if governed by Newton's First Law of 
Motion, an institution will resist any change in its current 
direction; (2) Just as work expands to fill available time, 
corporate projects or acquisitions will materialize to soak up 
available funds; (3) Any business craving of the leader, however 
foolish, will be quickly supported by detailed rate-of-return and 
strategic studies prepared by his troops; and (4) The behavior of 
peer companies, whether they are expanding, acquiring, setting 
executive compensation or whatever, will be mindlessly imitated.

     Institutional dynamics, not venality or stupidity, set 
businesses on these courses, which are too often misguided. After 
making some expensive mistakes because I ignored the power of the 
imperative, I have tried to organize and manage Berkshire in ways 
that minimize its influence. Furthermore, Charlie and I have 
attempted to concentrate our investments in companies that appear 
alert to the problem.
o
After some other mistakes, I learned to go into business 
only with people whom I like, trust, and admire. As I noted 
before, this policy of itself will not ensure success: A second-
class textile or department-store company won't prosper simply 
because its managers are men that you would be pleased to see 
your daughter marry. However, an owner - or investor - can 
accomplish wonders if he manages to associate himself with such 
people in businesses that possess decent economic 
characteristics. Conversely, we do not wish to join with managers 
who lack admirable qualities, no matter how attractive the 
prospects of their business. We've never succeeded in making a 
good deal with a bad person.
o
Some of my worst mistakes were not publicly visible. These 
were stock and business purchases whose virtues I understood and 
yet didn't make. It's no sin to miss a great opportunity outside 
one's area of competence. But I have passed on a couple of really 
big purchases that were served up to me on a platter and that I 
was fully capable of understanding. For Berkshire's shareholders, 
myself included, the cost of this thumb-sucking has been huge.
o
Our consistently-conservative financial policies may appear 
to have been a mistake, but in my view were not. In retrospect, 
it is clear that significantly higher, though still conventional, 
leverage ratios at Berkshire would have produced considerably 
better returns on equity than the 23.8% we have actually 
averaged. Even in 1965, perhaps we could have judged there to be 
a 99% probability that higher leverage would lead to nothing but 
good. Correspondingly, we might have seen only a 1% chance that 
some shock factor, external or internal, would cause a 
conventional debt ratio to produce a result falling somewhere 
between temporary anguish and default.

     We wouldn't have liked those 99:1 odds - and never will. A 
small chance of distress or disgrace cannot, in our view, be 
offset by a large chance of extra returns. If your actions are 
sensible, you are certain to get good results; in most such 
cases, leverage just moves things along faster. Charlie and I 
have never been in a big hurry: We enjoy the process far more 
than the proceeds - though we have learned to live with those 
also.

              *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *

     We hope in another 25 years to report on the mistakes of the 
first 50. If we are around in 2015 to do that, you can count on 
this section occupying many more pages than it does here.
Miscellaneous
We hope to buy more businesses that are similar to the ones 
we have, and we can use some help. If you have a business that 
fits the following criteria, call me or, preferably, write.

     Here's what we're looking for:

     (1)  Large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
          earnings),

     (2)  demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
          projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
          "turnaround" situations),

     (3)  businesses earning good returns on equity while 
          employing little or no debt,

     (4)  management in place (we can't supply it),

     (5)  simple businesses (if there's lots of technology, we 
          won't understand it),

     (6)  an offering price  (we don't want to waste our time or 
          that of the seller by talking,  even  preliminarily, 
          about a transaction when price is unknown).

     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers. We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we're interested. We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive 
as much in intrinsic business value as we give.

     Our favorite form of purchase is one fitting the Blumkin-
Friedman-Heldman mold. In cases like these, the company's owner-
managers wish to generate significant amounts of cash, sometimes 
for themselves, but often for their families or inactive 
shareholders. At the same time, these managers wish to remain 
significant owners who continue to run their companies just as 
they have in the past. We think we offer a particularly good fit 
for owners with such objectives. We invite potential sellers to 
check us out by contacting people with whom we have done business 
in the past.

     Charlie and I frequently get approached about acquisitions 
that don't come close to meeting our tests:  We've found that if 
you advertise an interest in buying collies, a lot of people will 
call hoping to sell you their cocker spaniels. Our interest in 
new ventures, turnarounds, or auction-like sales can best be 
expressed by a Goldwynism: "Please include me out."

     Besides being interested in the purchase of businesses as 
described above, we are also interested in the negotiated 
purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of stock 
comparable to those we hold in Capital Cities, Salomon, Gillette, 
USAir and Champion. Last year we said we had a special interest 
in large purchases of convertible preferreds. We still have an 
appetite of that kind, but it is limited since we now are close 
to the maximum position we feel appropriate for this category of 
investment.

              *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *

     Two years ago, I told you about Harry Bottle, who in 1962 
quickly cured a major business mess at the first industrial 
company I controlled, Dempster Mill Manufacturing (one of my 
"bargain" purchases) and who 24 years later had reappeared to 
again rescue me, this time from problems at K&W Products, a small 
Berkshire subsidiary that produces automotive compounds. As I 
reported, in short order Harry reduced capital employed at K&W, 
rationalized production, cut costs, and quadrupled profits. You 
might think he would then have paused for breath. But last year 
Harry, now 70, attended a bankruptcy auction and, for a pittance, 
acquired a product line that is a natural for K&W. That company's 