Our approach, rather, has been to follow Wayne Gretzky's advice: 
"Go to where the puck is going to be, not to where it is."  As a 
result, our shareholders are now many billions of dollars richer 
than they would have been if we had used the standard catechism.

     The sad fact is that most major acquisitions display an 
egregious imbalance:  They are a bonanza for the shareholders of 
the acquiree; they increase the income and status of the 
acquirer's management; and they are a honey pot for the 
investment bankers and other professionals on both sides.  But, 
alas, they usually reduce the wealth of the acquirer's shareholders, 
often to a substantial extent.  That happens because the acquirer 
typically gives up more intrinsic value than it receives.  Do that 
enough, says John Medlin, the retired head of Wachovia Corp., and 
"you are running a chain letter in reverse."

     Over time, the skill with which a company's managers 
allocate capital has an enormous impact on the enterprise's 
value.  Almost by definition, a really good business generates 
far more money (at least after its early years) than it can use 
internally.  The company could, of course, distribute the money 
to shareholders by way of dividends or share repurchases.  But 
often the CEO asks a strategic planning staff, consultants or 
investment bankers whether an acquisition or two might make 
sense.  That's like asking your interior decorator whether you 
need a $50,000 rug.

     The acquisition problem is often compounded by a biological 
bias:  Many CEO's attain their positions in part because they 
possess an abundance of animal spirits and ego.  If an executive 
is heavily endowed with these qualities - which, it should be 
acknowledged, sometimes have their advantages - they won't 
disappear when he reaches the top.  When such a CEO is encouraged 
by his advisors to make deals, he responds much as would a 
teenage boy who is encouraged by his father to have a normal sex 
life.  It's not a push he needs.

     Some years back, a CEO friend of mine - in jest, it must be 
said - unintentionally described the pathology of many big deals. 
This friend, who ran a property-casualty insurer, was explaining 
to his directors why he wanted to acquire a certain life 
insurance company.  After droning rather unpersuasively through 
the economics and strategic rationale for the acquisition, he 
abruptly abandoned the script.  With an impish look, he simply 
said:  "Aw, fellas, all the other kids have one."

     At Berkshire, our managers will continue to earn 
extraordinary returns from what appear to be ordinary businesses. 
As a first step, these managers will look for ways to deploy 
their earnings advantageously in their businesses.  What's left, 
they will send to Charlie and me.  We then will try to use those 
funds in ways that build per-share intrinsic value.  Our goal 
will be to acquire either part or all of businesses that we 
believe we understand, that have good, sustainable underlying 
economics, and that are run by managers whom we like, admire and 
trust.
Compensation
At Berkshire, we try to be as logical about compensation as 
about capital allocation.  For example, we compensate Ralph Schey 
based upon the results of Scott Fetzer rather than those of 
Berkshire.  What could make more sense, since he's responsible 
for one operation but not the other?  A cash bonus or a stock 
option tied to the fortunes of Berkshire would provide totally 
capricious rewards to Ralph.  He could, for example, be hitting 
home runs at Scott Fetzer while Charlie and I rang up mistakes at 
Berkshire, thereby negating his efforts many times over.  
Conversely, why should option profits or bonuses be heaped upon 
Ralph if good things are occurring in other parts of Berkshire 
but Scott Fetzer is lagging?

     In setting compensation, we like to hold out the promise of 
large carrots, but make sure their delivery is tied directly to 
results in the area that a manager controls.  When capital 
invested in an operation is significant, we also both charge 
managers a high rate for incremental capital they employ and 
credit them at an equally high rate for capital they release.

     The product of this money's-not-free approach is definitely 
visible at Scott Fetzer.  If Ralph can employ incremental funds 
at good returns, it pays him to do so:  His bonus increases when 
earnings on additional capital exceed a meaningful hurdle charge. 
But our bonus calculation is symmetrical:  If incremental 
investment yields sub-standard returns, the shortfall is costly 
to Ralph as well as to Berkshire.  The consequence of this two-
way arrangement is that it pays Ralph - and pays him well - to 
send to Omaha any cash he can't advantageously use in his 
business.

     It has become fashionable at public companies to describe 
almost every compensation plan as aligning the interests of 
management with those of shareholders.  In our book, alignment 
means being a partner in both directions, not just on the upside. 
Many "alignment" plans flunk this basic test, being artful forms 
of "heads I win, tails you lose."

     A common form of misalignment occurs in the typical stock 
option arrangement, which does not periodically increase the 
option price to compensate for the fact that retained earnings 
are building up the wealth of the company.  Indeed, the 
combination of a ten-year option, a low dividend payout, and 
compound interest can provide lush gains to a manager who has 
done no more than tread water in his job.  A cynic might even 
note that when payments to owners are held down, the profit to 
the option-holding manager increases.  I have yet to see this 
vital point spelled out in a proxy statement asking shareholders 
to approve an option plan.

     I can't resist mentioning that our compensation arrangement 
with Ralph Schey was worked out in about five minutes, 
immediately upon our purchase of Scott Fetzer and without the 
"help" of lawyers or compensation consultants.  This arrangement 
embodies a few very simple ideas - not the kind of terms favored 
by consultants who cannot easily send a large bill unless they 
have established that you have a large problem (and one, of 
course, that requires an annual review).  Our agreement with 
Ralph has never been changed.  It made sense to him and to me in 
1986, and it makes sense now.  Our compensation arrangements with 
the managers of all our other units are similarly simple, though 
the terms of each agreement vary to fit the economic 
characteristics of the business at issue, the existence in some 
cases of partial ownership of the unit by managers, etc.

     In all instances, we pursue rationality.  Arrangements that 
pay off in capricious ways, unrelated to a manager's personal 
accomplishments, may well be welcomed by certain managers.  Who, 
after all, refuses a free lottery ticket?  But such arrangements 
are wasteful to the company and cause the manager to lose focus 
on what should be his real areas of concern.  Additionally, 
irrational behavior at the parent may well encourage imitative 
behavior at subsidiaries.

     At Berkshire, only Charlie and I have the managerial 
responsibility for the entire business.  Therefore, we are the 
only parties who should logically be compensated on the basis of 
what the enterprise does as a whole.  Even so, that is not a 
compensation arrangement we desire.  We have carefully designed 
both the company and our jobs so that we do things we enjoy with 
people we like.  Equally important, we are forced to do very few 
boring or unpleasant tasks.  We are the beneficiaries as well of 
the abundant array of material and psychic perks that flow to the 
heads of corporations.  Under such idyllic conditions, we don't 
expect shareholders to ante up loads of compensation for which we 
have no possible need.

     Indeed, if we were not paid at all, Charlie and I would be 
delighted with the cushy jobs we hold.  At bottom, we subscribe 
to Ronald Reagan's creed:  "It's probably true that hard work 
never killed anyone, but I figure why take the chance."
Sources of Reported Earnings
The table on the next page shows the main sources of 
Berkshire's reported earnings.  In this presentation, purchase-
premium charges of the type we discussed in our earlier analysis 
of Scott Fetzer are not assigned to the specific businesses to 
which they apply, but are instead aggregated and shown 
separately.  This procedure lets you view the earnings of our 
businesses as they would have been reported had we not purchased 
them.  This form of presentation seems to us to be more useful to 
investors and managers than one utilizing GAAP, which requires 
purchase premiums to be charged off, business-by-business.  The 
total earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical to 
the GAAP total in our audited financial statements.
Berkshire's Share  
                                                          of Net Earnings  
                                                         (after taxes and  
                                   Pre-Tax Earnings     minority interests)
                                  -------------------   -------------------
                                    1994       1993       1994       1993 
                                  --------   --------   --------   --------
                                               (000s omitted)
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ...............  $129,926   $ 30,876   $ 80,860   $ 20,156 
    Net Investment Income ......   419,422    375,946    350,453    321,321 
  Buffalo News .................    54,238     50,962     31,685     29,696 