did; we made an even more serious mistake in not selling them (at 
losses, if necessary) when our present views began to 
crystallize. (Naturally, those views are much clearer and 
definite in retrospect; it would be fair for you to ask why we 
weren’t writing about this subject last year.)

     Of course, we must hold significant amounts of bonds or 
other fixed dollar obligations in conjunction with our insurance 
operations.  In the last several years our net fixed dollar 
commitments have been limited to the purchase of convertible 
bonds.  We believe that the conversion options obtained, in 
effect, give that portion of the bond portfolio a far shorter 
average life than implied by the maturity terms of the issues 
(i.e., at an appropriate time of our choosing, we can terminate 
the bond contract by conversion into stock).

     This bond policy has given us significantly lower unrealized 
losses than those experienced by the great majority of property 
and casualty insurance companies.  We also have been helped by 
our strong preference for equities in recent years that has kept 
our overall bond segment relatively low.  Nevertheless, we are 
taking our lumps in bonds and feel that, in a sense, our mistakes 
should be viewed less charitably than the mistakes of those who 
went about their business unmindful of the developing problems.

     Harking back to our textile experience, we should have 
realized the futility of trying to be very clever (via sinking 
funds and other special type issues) in an area where the tide 
was running heavily against us.

     We have severe doubts as to whether a very long-term fixed-
interest bond, denominated in dollars, remains an appropriate 
business contract in a world where the value of dollars seems 
almost certain to shrink by the day.  Those dollars, as well as 
paper creations of other governments, simply may have too many 
structural weaknesses to appropriately serve as a unit of long 
term commercial reference.  If so, really long bonds may turn out 
to be obsolete instruments and insurers who have bought those 
maturities of 2010 or 2020 could have major and continuing 
problems on their hands.  We, likewise, will be unhappy with our 
fifteen-year bonds and will annually pay a price in terms of 
earning power that reflects that mistake.

     Some of our convertible bonds appear exceptionally 
attractive to us, and have the same sort of earnings retention 
factor (applicable to the stock into which they may be converted) 
that prevails in our conventional equity portfolio.  We expect to 
make money in these bonds (we already have, in a few cases) and 
have hopes that our profits in this area may offset losses in 
straight bonds.

     And, of course, there is the possibility that our present 
analysis is much too negative.  The chances for very low rates of 
inflation are not nil.  Inflation is man-made; perhaps it can be 
man-mastered.  The threat which alarms us may also alarm 
legislators and other powerful groups, prompting some appropriate 
response.

     Furthermore, present interest rates incorporate much higher 
inflation projections than those of a year or two ago.  Such 
rates may prove adequate or more than adequate to protect bond 
buyers.  We even may miss large profits from a major rebound in 
bond prices.  However, our unwillingness to fix a price now for a 
pound of See’s candy or a yard of Berkshire cloth to be delivered 
in 2010 or 2020 makes us equally unwilling to buy bonds which set 
a price on money now for use in those years.  Overall, we opt for 
Polonius (slightly restated): “Neither a short-term borrower nor 
a long-term lender be.”
Banking
This will be the last year that we can report on the 
Illinois National Bank and Trust Company as a subsidiary of 
Berkshire Hathaway.  Therefore, it is particularly pleasant to 
report that, under Gene Abegg’s and Pete Jeffrey’s management, 
the bank broke all previous records and earned approximately 2.3% 
on average assets last year, a level again over three times that 
achieved by the average major bank, and more than double that of 
banks regarded as outstanding.  The record is simply 
extraordinary, and the shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway owe a 
standing ovation to Gene Abegg for the performance this year and 
every year since our purchase in 1969.

     As you know, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1969 requires 
that we divest the bank by December 31, 1980.  For some years we 
have expected to comply by effecting a spin-off during 1980.  
However, the Federal Reserve Board has taken the firm position 
that if the bank is spun off, no officer or director of Berkshire 
Hathaway can be an officer or director of the spun-off bank or 
bank holding company, even in a case such as ours in which one 
individual would own over 40% of both companies.

     Under these conditions, we are investigating the possible 
sale of between 80% and 100% of the stock of the bank.  We will 
be most choosy about any purchaser, and our selection will not be 
based solely on price.  The bank and its management have treated 
us exceptionally well and, if we have to sell, we want to be sure 
that they are treated equally as well.  A spin-off still is a 
possibility if a fair price along with a proper purchaser cannot 
be obtained by early fall.

     However, you should be aware that we do not expect to be 
able to fully, or even in very large part, replace the earning 
power represented by the bank from the proceeds of the sale of 
the bank.  You simply can’t buy high quality businesses at the 
sort of price/earnings multiple likely to prevail on our bank 
sale.
Financial Reporting
During 1979, NASDAQ trading was initiated in the stock of 
Berkshire Hathaway This means that the stock now is quoted on the 
Over-the-Counter page of the Wall Street journal under 
“Additional OTC Quotes”.  Prior to such listing, the Wall Street 
journal and the Dow-Jones news ticker would not report our 
earnings, even though such earnings were one hundred or more 
times the level of some companies whose reports they regularly 
picked up.

     Now, however, the Dow-Jones news ticker reports our 
quarterly earnings promptly after we release them and, in 
addition, both the ticker and the Wall Street journal report our 
annual earnings.  This solves a dissemination problem that had 
bothered us.

     In some ways, our shareholder group is a rather unusual one, 
and this affects our manner of reporting to you.  For example, at 
the end of each year about 98% of the shares outstanding are held 
by people who also were shareholders at the beginning of the 
year.  Therefore, in our annual report we build upon what we have 
told you in previous years instead of restating a lot of 
material.  You get more useful information this way, and we don’t 
get bored.

     Furthermore, perhaps 90% of our shares are owned by 
investors for whom Berkshire is their largest security holding, 
very often far and away the largest.  Many of these owners are 
willing to spend a significant amount of time with the annual 
report, and we attempt to provide them with the same information 
we would find useful if the roles were reversed.

     In contrast, we include no narrative with our quarterly 
reports.  Our owners and managers both have very long time-
horizons in regard to this business, and it is difficult to say 
anything new or meaningful each quarter about events of long-term 
significance.

     But when you do receive a communication from us, it will 
come from the fellow you are paying to run the business.  Your 
Chairman has a firm belief that owners are entitled to hear 
directly from the CEO as to what is going on and how he evaluates 
the business, currently and prospectively.  You would demand that 
in a private company; you should expect no less in a public 
company.  A once-a-year report of stewardship should not be 
turned over to a staff specialist or public relations consultant 
who is unlikely to be in a position to talk frankly on a manager-
to-owner basis.

     We feel that you, as owners, are entitled to the same sort 
of reporting by your manager as we feel is owed to us at 
Berkshire Hathaway by managers of our business units.  Obviously, 
the degree of detail must be different, particularly where 
information would be useful to a business competitor or the like.  
But the general scope, balance, and level of candor should be 
similar.  We don’t expect a public relations document when our 
operating managers tell us what is going on, and we don’t feel 
you should receive such a document.

     In large part, companies obtain the shareholder constituency 
that they seek and deserve.  If they focus their thinking and 
communications on short-term results or short-term stock market 
consequences they will, in large part, attract shareholders who 
focus on the same factors.  And if they are cynical in their 
treatment of investors, eventually that cynicism is highly likely 
to be returned by the investment community.