venture with the family, following a successful wire and cable partnership instituted a few years ago.
Of the eleven major sectors in which Marmon operates, ten delivered gains in earnings last year. You
can be confident of higher earnings from Marmon in the years ahead.

•

“Buy commodities, sell brands” has long been a formula for business success. It has produced
enormous and sustained profits for Coca-Cola since 1886 and Wrigley since 1891. On a smaller scale,
we have enjoyed good fortune with this approach at See’s Candy since we purchased it 40 years ago.
Last year See’s had record pre-tax earnings of $83 million, bringing its total since we bought it to $1.65
billion. Contrast that figure with our purchase price of $25 million and our yearend carrying-value (net
of cash) of less than zero. (Yes, you read that right; capital employed at See’s fluctuates seasonally,
hitting a low after Christmas.) Credit Brad Kinstler for taking the company to new heights since he
became CEO in 2006.

•

Nebraska Furniture Mart (80% owned) set an earnings record in 2011, netting more than ten times what
it did in 1983, when we acquired our stake.
But that’s not the big news. More important was NFM’s acquisition of a 433-acre tract north of Dallas
on which we will build what is almost certain to be the highest-volume home-furnishings store in the
country. Currently, that title is shared by our two stores in Omaha and Kansas City, each of which had
record-setting sales of more than $400 million in 2011. It will be several years before the Texas store is
completed, but I look forward to cutting the ribbon at the opening. (At Berkshire, the managers do the
work; I take the bows.)
Our new store, which will offer an unequalled variety of merchandise sold at prices that can’t be
matched, will bring huge crowds from near and far. This drawing power and our extensive holdings of
land at the site should enable us to attract a number of other major stores. (If any high-volume retailers
are reading this, contact me.)
Our experience with NFM and the Blumkin family that runs it has been a real joy. The business was
built by Rose Blumkin (known to all as “Mrs. B”), who started the company in 1937 with $500 and a
dream. She sold me our interest when she was 89 and worked until she was 103. (After retiring, she
died the next year, a sequence I point out to any other Berkshire manager who even thinks of retiring.)
Mrs. B’s son, Louie, now 92, helped his mother build the business after he returned from World War II
and, along with his wife, Fran, has been my friend for 55 years. In turn, Louie’s sons, Ron and Irv, have
taken the company to new heights, first opening the Kansas City store and now gearing up for Texas.
14

The “boys” and I have had many great times together, and I count them among my best friends. The
Blumkins are a remarkable family. Never inclined to let an extraordinary gene pool go to waste, I am
rejoicing these days because several members of the fourth Blumkin generation have joined NFM.
Overall, the intrinsic value of the businesses in this Berkshire sector significantly exceeds their book
value. For many of the smaller companies, however, this is not true. I have made more than my share of mistakes
buying small companies. Charlie long ago told me, “If something’s not worth doing at all, it’s not worth
doing well,” and I should have listened harder. In any event, our large purchases have generally worked
well – extraordinarily well in a few cases – and overall this sector is a winner for us.
************
Certain shareholders have told me they hunger for more discussions of accounting arcana. So here’s a
bit of GAAP-mandated nonsense I hope both of them enjoy.
Common sense would tell you that our varied subsidiaries should be carried on our books at their cost
plus the earnings they have retained since our purchase (unless their economic value has materially decreased, in
which case an appropriate write-down must be taken). And that’s essentially the reality at Berkshire – except for
the weird situation at Marmon.
We purchased 64% of the company in 2008 and put this interest on our books at our cost, $4.8 billion.
So far, so good. Then, in early 2011, pursuant to our original contract with the Pritzker family, we purchased an
additional 16%, paying $1.5 billion as called for by a formula that reflected Marmon’s increased value. In this
instance, however, we were required to immediately write off $614 million of the purchase price retroactive to
the end of 2010. (Don’t ask!) Obviously, this write-off had no connection to economic reality. The excess of
Marmon’s intrinsic value over its carrying value is widened by this meaningless write-down.
Finance and Financial Products
This sector, our smallest, includes two rental companies, XTRA (trailers) and CORT (furniture), and
Clayton Homes, the country’s leading producer and financer of manufactured homes. Aside from these 100%-owned
subsidiaries, we also include in this category a collection of financial assets and our 50% interest in Berkadia
Commercial Mortgage.
It’s instructive to look at what transpired at our three operating businesses after the economy fell off a
cliff in late 2008, because their experiences illuminate the fractured recovery that later came along.
Results at our two leasing companies mirrored the “non-housing” economy. Their combined pre-tax
earnings were $13 million in 2009, $53 million in 2010 and $155 million in 2011, an improvement reflecting the
steady recovery we have seen in almost all of our non-housing businesses. In contrast, Clayton’s world of
manufactured housing (just like site-built housing) has endured a veritable depression, experiencing no recovery
to date. Manufactured housing sales in the nation were 49,789 homes in 2009, 50,046 in 2010 and 51,606 in
2011. (When housing was booming in 2005, they were 146,744.)
Despite these difficult times, Clayton has continued to operate profitably, largely because its mortgage
portfolio has performed well under trying circumstances. Because we are the largest lender in the manufactured
homes sector and are also normally lending to lower-and-middle-income families, you might expect us to suffer
heavy losses during a housing meltdown. But by sticking to old-fashioned loan policies – meaningful down
payments and monthly payments with a sensible relationship to regular income – Clayton has kept losses to
acceptable levels. It has done so even though many of our borrowers have had negative equity for some time.
As is well-known, the U.S. went off the rails in its home-ownership and mortgage-lending policies,
and for these mistakes our economy is now paying a huge price. All of us participated in the destructive
behavior – government, lenders, borrowers, the media, rating agencies, you name it. At the core of the folly was
the almost universal belief that the value of houses was certain to increase over time and that any dips
would be inconsequential. The acceptance of this premise justified almost any price and practice in housing
transactions. Homeowners everywhere felt richer and rushed to “monetize” the increased value of their homes by
refinancings. These massive cash infusions fueled a consumption binge throughout our economy. It all seemed
great fun while it lasted. (A largely unnoted fact: Large numbers of people who have “lost” their house through
foreclosure have actually realized a profit because they carried out refinancings earlier that gave them cash in
excess of their cost. In these cases, the evicted homeowner was the winner, and the victim was the lender.)
15

In 2007, the bubble burst, just as all bubbles must. We are now in the fourth year of a cure that, though
long and painful, is sure to succeed. Today, household formations are consistently exceeding housing starts.
Clayton’s earnings should improve materially when the nation’s excess housing inventory is worked
off. As I see things today, however, I believe the intrinsic value of the three businesses in this sector does not
differ materially from their book value.
Investments
Below we show our common stock investments that at yearend had a market value of more than $1 billion.
12/31/11
Shares

Percentage of
Company
Owned

Company

Cost*

Market

(in millions)
151,610,700
200,000,000
29,100,937
63,905,931
31,416,127
79,034,713
20,060,390
3,947,555
72,391,036
25,848,838
291,577,428
78,060,769
39,037,142
400,015,828

American Express Company . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Coca-Cola Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ConocoPhillips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Business Machines Corp. . . . . .
Johnson & Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kraft Foods Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .