Why have intelligent and decent directors failed so miserably? The answer lies not in inadequate
laws – it’s always been clear that directors are obligated to represent the interests of shareholders – but rather
in what I’d call “boardroom atmosphere.”

16

It’s almost impossible, for example, in a boardroom populated by well-mannered people, to raise the
question of whether the CEO should be replaced. It’s equally awkward to question a proposed acquisition
that has been endorsed by the CEO, particularly when his inside staff and outside advisors are present and
unanimously support his decision. (They wouldn’t be in the room if they didn’t.) Finally, when the
compensation committee – armed, as always, with support from a high-paid consultant – reports on a
megagrant of options to the CEO, it would be like belching at the dinner table for a director to suggest that the
committee reconsider.
These “social” difficulties argue for outside directors regularly meeting without the CEO – a reform
that is being instituted and that I enthusiastically endorse. I doubt, however, that most of the other new
governance rules and recommendations will provide benefits commensurate with the monetary and other
costs they impose.
The current cry is for “independent” directors. It is certainly true that it is desirable to have directors
who think and speak independently – but they must also be business-savvy, interested and shareholderoriented. In my 1993 commentary, those are the three qualities I described as essential.
Over a span of 40 years, I have been on 19 public-company boards (excluding Berkshire’s) and have
interacted with perhaps 250 directors. Most of them were “independent” as defined by today’s rules. But the
great majority of these directors lacked at least one of the three qualities I value. As a result, their
contribution to shareholder well-being was minimal at best and, too often, negative. These people, decent and
intelligent though they were, simply did not know enough about business and/or care enough about
shareholders to question foolish acquisitions or egregious compensation. My own behavior, I must ruefully
add, frequently fell short as well: Too often I was silent when management made proposals that I judged to be
counter to the interests of shareholders. In those cases, collegiality trumped independence.
So that we may further see the failings of “independence,” let’s look at a 62-year case study covering
thousands of companies. Since 1940, federal law has mandated that a large proportion of the directors of
investment companies (most of these mutual funds) be independent. The requirement was originally 40% and
now it is 50%. In any case, the typical fund has long operated with a majority of directors who qualify as
independent.
These directors and the entire board have many perfunctory duties, but in actuality have only two
important responsibilities: obtaining the best possible investment manager and negotiating with that manager
for the lowest possible fee. When you are seeking investment help yourself, those two goals are the only ones
that count, and directors acting for other investors should have exactly the same priorities. Yet when it comes
to independent directors pursuing either goal, their record has been absolutely pathetic.
Many thousands of investment-company boards meet annually to carry out the vital job of selecting
who will manage the savings of the millions of owners they represent. Year after year the directors of Fund
A select manager A, Fund B directors select manager B, etc. … in a zombie-like process that makes a
mockery of stewardship. Very occasionally, a board will revolt. But for the most part, a monkey will type
out a Shakespeare play before an “independent” mutual-fund director will suggest that his fund look at other
managers, even if the incumbent manager has persistently delivered substandard performance. When they are
handling their own money, of course, directors will look to alternative advisors – but it never enters their
minds to do so when they are acting as fiduciaries for others.
The hypocrisy permeating the system is vividly exposed when a fund management company – call it
“A” – is sold for a huge sum to Manager “B”. Now the “independent” directors experience a “counterrevelation” and decide that Manager B is the best that can be found – even though B was available (and
ignored) in previous years. Not so incidentally, B also could formerly have been hired at a far lower rate than
is possible now that it has bought Manager A. That’s because B has laid out a fortune to acquire A, and B
must now recoup that cost through fees paid by the A shareholders who were “delivered” as part of the deal.
(For a terrific discussion of the mutual fund business, read John Bogle’s Common Sense on Mutual Funds.)
A few years ago, my daughter was asked to become a director of a family of funds managed by a
major institution. The fees she would have received as a director were very substantial, enough to have
increased her annual income by about 50% (a boost, she will tell you, she could use!). Legally, she would
have been an independent director. But did the fund manager who approached her think there was any
chance that she would think independently as to what advisor the fund should employ? Of course not. I am

17

proud to say that she showed real independence by turning down the offer. The fund, however, had no
trouble filling the slot (and – surprise – the fund has not changed managers).
Investment company directors have failed as well in negotiating management fees (just as
compensation committees of many American companies have failed to hold the compensation of their CEOs
to sensible levels). If you or I were empowered, I can assure you that we could easily negotiate materially
lower management fees with the incumbent managers of most mutual funds. And, believe me, if directors
were promised a portion of any fee savings they realized, the skies would be filled with falling fees. Under
the current system, though, reductions mean nothing to “independent” directors while meaning everything to
managers. So guess who wins?
Having the right money manager, of course, is far more important to a fund than reducing the
manager’s fee. Both tasks are nonetheless the job of directors. And in stepping up to these all-important
responsibilities, tens of thousands of “independent” directors, over more than six decades, have failed
miserably. (They’ve succeeded, however, in taking care of themselves; their fees from serving on multiple
boards of a single “family” of funds often run well into six figures.)
When the manager cares deeply and the directors don’t, what’s needed is a powerful countervailing
force – and that’s the missing element in today’s corporate governance. Getting rid of mediocre CEOs and
eliminating overreaching by the able ones requires action by owners – big owners. The logistics aren’t that
tough: The ownership of stock has grown increasingly concentrated in recent decades, and today it would be
easy for institutional managers to exert their will on problem situations. Twenty, or even fewer, of the largest
institutions, acting together, could effectively reform corporate governance at a given company, simply by
withholding their votes for directors who were tolerating odious behavior. In my view, this kind of concerted
action is the only way that corporate stewardship can be meaningfully improved.
Unfortunately, certain major investing institutions have “glass house” problems in arguing for better
governance elsewhere; they would shudder, for example, at the thought of their own performance and fees
being closely inspected by their own boards. But Jack Bogle of Vanguard fame, Chris Davis of Davis
Advisors, and Bill Miller of Legg Mason are now offering leadership in getting CEOs to treat their owners
properly. Pension funds, as well as other fiduciaries, will reap better investment returns in the future if they
support these men.
The acid test for reform will be CEO compensation. Managers will cheerfully agree to board
“diversity,” attest to SEC filings and adopt meaningless proposals relating to process. What many will fight,
however, is a hard look at their own pay and perks.
In recent years compensation committees too often have been tail-wagging puppy dogs meekly
following recommendations by consultants, a breed not known for allegiance to the faceless shareholders who
pay their fees. (If you can’t tell whose side someone is on, they are not on yours.) True, each committee is
required by the SEC to state its reasoning about pay in the proxy. But the words are usually boilerplate
written by the company’s lawyers or its human-relations department.
This costly charade should cease. Directors should not serve on compensation committees unless
they are themselves capable of negotiating on behalf of owners. They should explain both how they think
about pay and how they measure performance. Dealing with shareholders’ money, moreover, they should
behave as they would were it their own.
In the 1890s, Samuel Gompers described the goal of organized labor as “More!” In the 1990s,
America’s CEOs adopted his battle cry. The upshot is that CEOs have often amassed riches while their