$66.  But your Chairman was up to the task of nullifying it:  In 1967 I sold out at 48&#155; per share.

     Oh well   we're happy to be once again a large owner of a business with both unique assets and
outstanding management.

Convertible Preferred Stocks

     As many of you will remember, Berkshire made five private purchases of convertible preferred
stocks during the 1987-91 period and the time seems right to discuss their status.  Here are the
particulars:

                                     Dividend  Year of             Market
    Company                            Rate    Purchase    Cost     Value 
-----------------------------------  --------  --------  ------   ---------
                                                         (dollars in millions)
Champion International Corp. . . . . .9.25%      1989     $ 300   $  388(1)
First Empire State Corp. . . . . . . .9.00%      1991        40      110        
The Gillette Company . . . . . . . . .8.75%      1989       600    2,502(2)
Salomon Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . .9.00%      1987       700      728(3)
USAir Group, Inc.. . . . . . . . . . .9.25%      1989       358      215

  (1) Proceeds from sale of common we received through conversion in 1995.
  (2) 12/31/95 value of common we received through conversion in 1991.
  (3) Includes $140 we received in 1995 from partial redemption. 

     In each case we had the option of sticking with these preferreds as fixed-income securities or
converting them into common stock.  Initially, their value to us came primarily from their fixed-income
characteristics.  The option we had to convert was a kicker.

     Our $300 million private purchase of American Express &quot;Percs&quot;   described in the 1991 Annual
Report   is not included in the table because that security was a modified form of common stock whose
fixed-income characteristics contributed only a minor portion of its initial value.  Three years after we
bought them, the Percs automatically were converted to common stock.  In contrast, the five securities
in the table were set to become common stocks only if we wished them to   a crucial difference.

     When we purchased our convertible securities, I told you that we expected to earn after-tax returns
from them that &quot;moderately&quot; exceeded what we could earn from the medium-term fixed-income securities they replaced.  We beat this expectation   but only because of the performance of a single issue.  I
also told you that these securities, as a group, would &quot;not produce the returns we can achieve when
we find a business with wonderful economic prospects.&quot;  Unfortunately, that prediction was fulfilled. 
Finally, I said that &quot;under almost any conditions, we expect these preferreds to return us our money plus
dividends.&quot;  That's one I would like to have back.  Winston Churchill once said that &quot;eating my words
has never given me indigestion.&quot;  My assertion, however, that it was almost impossible for us to lose
money on our preferreds has caused me some well-deserved heartburn.

     Our best holding has been Gillette, which we told you from the start was a superior business. 
Ironically, though, this is also the purchase in which I made my biggest mistake   of a kind, however,
never recognized on financial statements.

     We paid $600 million in 1989 for Gillette preferred shares that were convertible into 48 million (split-
adjusted) common shares.  Taking an alternative route with the $600 million, I probably could have
purchased 60 million shares of common from the company.  The market on the common was then about
$10.50, and given that this would have been a huge private placement carrying important restrictions,
I probably could have bought the stock at a discount of at least 5%.  I can't be sure about this, but it's
likely that Gillette's management would have been just as happy to have Berkshire opt for common.

     But I was far too clever to do that.  Instead, for less than two years, we received some extra
dividend income (the difference between the preferred's yield and that of the common), at which point
the company   quite properly   called the issue, moving to do that as quickly as was possible.  If I
had negotiated for common rather than preferred, we would have been better off at yearend 1995 by
$625 million, minus the &quot;excess&quot; dividends of about $70 million.

     In the case of Champion, the ability of the company to call our preferred at 115% of cost forced
a move out of us last August that we would rather have delayed.  In this instance, we converted our
shares just prior to the pending call and offered them to the company at a modest discount.

     Charlie and I have never had a conviction about the paper industry   actually, I can't remember
ever owning the common stock of a paper producer in my 54 years of investing   so our choice in
August was whether to sell in the market or to the company.  Champion's management had always been
candid and honorable in dealing with us and wished to repurchase common shares, so we offered our
stock to the company.  Our Champion capital gain was moderate   about 19% after tax from a six-year
investment   but the preferred delivered us a good after-tax dividend yield throughout our holding period. 
(That said, many press accounts have overstated the after-tax yields earned by property-casualty
insurance companies on dividends paid to them.  What the press has failed to take into account is a
change in the tax law that took effect in 1987 and that significantly reduced the dividends received credit
applicable to insurers.  For details, see our 1986 Annual Report.)

     Our First Empire preferred will be called on March 31, 1996, the earliest date allowable.  We are
comfortable owning stock in well-run banks, and we will convert and keep our First Empire common
shares.  Bob Wilmers, CEO of the company, is an outstanding banker, and we love being associated
with him.

     Our other two preferreds have been disappointing, though the Salomon preferred has modestly
outperformed the fixed-income securities for which it was a substitute.  However, the amount of
management time Charlie and I have devoted to this holding has been vastly greater than its economic
significance to Berkshire.  Certainly I never dreamed I would take a new job at age 60   Salomon
interim chairman, that is   because of an earlier purchase of a fixed-income security.

     Soon after our purchase of the Salomon preferred in 1987, I wrote that I had &quot;no special insights
regarding the direction or future profitability of investment banking.&quot;  Even the most charitable
commentator would conclude that I have since proved my point.

     To date, our option to convert into Salomon common has not proven of value.  Furthermore, the
Dow Industrials have doubled since I committed to buy the preferred, and the brokerage group has
performed equally as well.  That means my decision to go with Salomon because I saw value in the
conversion option must be graded as very poor.  Even so, the preferred has continued under some trying conditions to
deliver as a fixed-income security, and the 9% dividend is currently quite attractive.

     Unless the preferred is converted, its terms require redemption of 20% of the issue on October 31
of each year, 1995-99, and $140 million of our original $700 million was taken on schedule last year. 
(Some press reports labeled this a sale, but a senior security that matures is not &quot;sold.&quot;)  Though we
did not elect to convert the preferred that matured last year, we have four more bites at the conversion
apple, and I believe it quite likely that we will yet find value in our right to convert.

     I discussed the USAir investment at length in last year's report.  The company's results improved
in 1995, but it still faces significant problems.  On the plus side for us is the fact that our preferred is
structurally well-designed:  For example, though we have not been paid dividends since June 1994, the
amounts owed us are compounding at 5% over the prime rate.  On the minus side is the fact that we
are dealing with a weak credit.

     We feel much better about our USAir preferred than we did a year ago, but your guess is as good
as mine as to its ultimate value.  (Indeed, considering my record with this investment, it's fair to say that
your guess may be better than mine.)  At yearend we carried our preferred (in which there is no public
market) at 60% of par, though USAir also has outstanding a junior preferred that is significantly inferior
to ours in all respects except conversion price and that was then trading at 82% of par.  As I write this,
the junior issue has advanced to 97% of par.  Let's hope the market is right.

     Overall, our preferreds have performed well, but that is true only because of one huge winner,
Gillette.  Leaving aside Gillette, our preferreds as a group have delivered us after-tax returns no more
than equal to those we could have earned from the medium-term fixed-income issues that they replaced.

A Proposed Recapitalization

     At the Annual Meeting you will be asked to approve a recapitalization of Berkshire, creating two
classes of stock.  If the plan is adopted, our existing common stock will be designated as Class A