
     But the CEO’s boss is a Board of Directors that seldom 
measures itself and is infrequently held to account for 
substandard corporate performance.  If the Board makes a mistake 
in hiring, and perpetuates that mistake, so what?  Even if the 
company is taken over because of the mistake, the deal will 
probably bestow substantial benefits on the outgoing Board 
members. (The bigger they are, the softer they fall.)

     Finally, relations between the Board and the CEO are 
expected to be congenial.  At board meetings, criticism of the 
CEO’s performance is often viewed as the social equivalent of 
belching.  No such inhibitions restrain the office manager from 
critically evaluating the substandard typist.

     These points should not be interpreted as a blanket 
condemnation of CEOs or Boards of Directors: Most are able and 
hard-working, and a number are truly outstanding.  But the 
management failings that Charlie and I have seen make us thankful 
that we are linked with the managers of our three permanent 
holdings.  They love their businesses, they think like owners, 
and they exude integrity and ability.
o
In 1988 we made major purchases of Federal Home Loan 
Mortgage Pfd. (“Freddie Mac”) and Coca Cola.  We expect to hold 
these securities for a long time.  In fact, when we own portions 
of outstanding businesses with outstanding managements, our 
favorite holding period is forever.  We are just the opposite of 
those who hurry to sell and book profits when companies perform 
well but who tenaciously hang on to businesses that disappoint.  
Peter Lynch aptly likens such behavior to cutting the flowers and 
watering the weeds.  Our holdings of Freddie Mac are the maximum 
allowed by law, and are extensively described by Charlie in his 
letter.  In our consolidated balance sheet these shares are 
carried at cost rather than market, since they are owned by 
Mutual Savings and Loan, a non-insurance subsidiary.

     We continue to concentrate our investments in a very few 
companies that we try to understand well.  There are only a 
handful of businesses about which we have strong long-term 
convictions.  Therefore, when we find such a business, we want to 
participate in a meaningful way.  We agree with Mae West: “Too 
much of a good thing can be wonderful.”
o
We reduced our holdings of medium-term tax-exempt bonds by 
about $100 million last year.  All of the bonds sold were 
acquired after August 7, 1986. When such bonds are held by 
property-casualty insurance companies, 15% of the “tax-exempt” 
interest earned is subject to tax.

     The $800 million position we still hold consists almost 
entirely of bonds “grandfathered” under the Tax Reform Act of 
1986, which means they are entirely tax-exempt.  Our sales 
produced a small profit and our remaining bonds, which have an 
average maturity of about six years, are worth modestly more than 
carrying value.

     Last year we described our holdings of short-term and 
intermediate-term bonds of Texaco, which was then in bankruptcy.  
During 1988, we sold practically all of these bonds at a pre-tax 
profit of about $22 million.  This sale explains close to $100 
million of the reduction in fixed-income securities on our 
balance sheet.

     We also told you last year about our holdings of another 
security whose predominant characteristics are those of an 
intermediate fixed-income issue: our $700 million position in 
Salomon Inc 9% convertible preferred.  This preferred has a 
sinking fund that will retire it in equal annual installments 
from 1995 to 1999.  Berkshire carries this holding at cost.  For 
reasons discussed by Charlie on page 69, the estimated market 
value of our holding has improved from moderately under cost at 
the end of last year to moderately over cost at 1988 year end.

     The close association we have had with John Gutfreund, CEO 
of Salomon, during the past year has reinforced our admiration 
for him.  But we continue to have no great insights about the 
near, intermediate or long-term economics of the investment 
banking business: This is not an industry in which it is easy to 
forecast future levels of profitability.  We continue to believe 
that our conversion privilege could well have important value 
over the life of our preferred.  However, the overwhelming 
portion of the preferred’s value resides in its fixed-income 
characteristics, not its equity characteristics.
o
We have not lost our aversion to long-term bonds.  We will 
become enthused about such securities only when we become 
enthused about prospects for long-term stability in the 
purchasing power of money.  And that kind of stability isn’t in 
the cards: Both society and elected officials simply have too 
many higher-ranking priorities that conflict with purchasing-
power stability.  The only long-term bonds we hold are those of 
Washington Public Power Supply Systems (WPPSS).  A few of our 
WPPSS bonds have short maturities and many others, because of 
their high coupons, are likely to be refunded and paid off in a 
few years.  Overall, our WPPSS holdings are carried on our 
balance sheet at $247 million and have a market value of about 
$352 million.

     We explained the reasons for our WPPSS purchases in the 1983 
annual report, and are pleased to tell you that this commitment 
has worked out about as expected.  At the time of purchase, most 
of our bonds were yielding around 17% after taxes and carried no 
ratings, which had been suspended.  Recently, the bonds were 
rated AA- by Standard & Poor’s.  They now sell at levels only 
slightly below those enjoyed by top-grade credits.

     In the 1983 report, we compared the economics of our WPPSS 
purchase to those involved in buying a business.  As it turned 
out, this purchase actually worked out better than did the 
general run of business acquisitions made in 1983, assuming both 
are measured on the basis of unleveraged, after tax returns 
achieved through 1988.  

     Our WPPSS experience, though pleasant, does nothing to alter 
our negative opinion about long-term bonds.  It only makes us 
hope that we run into some other large stigmatized issue, whose 
troubles have caused it to be significantly misappraised by the 
market.
Arbitrage
In past reports we have told you that our insurance 
subsidiaries sometimes engage in arbitrage as an alternative to 
holding short-term cash equivalents. We prefer, of course, to 
make major long-term commitments, but we often have more cash 
than good ideas.  At such times, arbitrage sometimes promises 
much greater returns than Treasury Bills and, equally important, 
cools any temptation we may have to relax our standards for long-
term investments.  (Charlie’s sign off after we’ve talked about 
an arbitrage commitment is usually: “Okay, at least it will keep 
you out of bars.”)

     During 1988 we made unusually large profits from arbitrage, 
measured both by absolute dollars and rate of return.  Our pre-
tax gain was about $78 million on average invested funds of about 
$147 million.

     This level of activity makes some detailed discussion of 
arbitrage and our approach to it appropriate.  Once, the word 
applied only to the simultaneous purchase and sale of securities 
or foreign exchange in two different markets.  The goal was to 
exploit tiny price differentials that might exist between, say, 
Royal Dutch stock trading in guilders in Amsterdam, pounds in 
London, and dollars in New York.  Some people might call this 
scalping; it won’t surprise you that practitioners opted for the 
French term, arbitrage.

     Since World War I the definition of arbitrage - or “risk 
arbitrage,” as it is now sometimes called - has expanded to 
include the pursuit of profits from an announced corporate event 
such as sale of the company, merger, recapitalization, 
reorganization, liquidation, self-tender, etc.  In most cases the 
arbitrageur expects to profit regardless of the behavior of the 
stock market.  The major risk he usually faces instead is that 
the announced event won’t happen.  

     Some offbeat opportunities occasionally arise in the 
arbitrage field.  I participated in one of these when I was 24 
and working in New York for Graham-Newman Corp. Rockwood & Co., 
a Brooklyn based chocolate products company of limited 
profitability, had adopted LIFO inventory valuation in 1941 
when cocoa was selling for 5¢ per pound.  In 1954 a 
temporary shortage of cocoa caused the price to soar to over 
60&cent.  Consequently Rockwood wished to unload its valuable 
inventory - quickly, before the price dropped.  But if the cocoa 
had simply been sold off, the company would have owed close to 
a 50% tax on the proceeds.

     The 1954 Tax Code came to the rescue.  It contained an 
arcane provision that eliminated the tax otherwise due on LIFO 
profits if inventory was distributed to shareholders as part of a 
plan reducing the scope of a corporation’s business.  Rockwood 
decided to terminate one of its businesses, the sale of cocoa 
butter, and said 13 million pounds of its cocoa bean inventory 
was attributable to that activity.  Accordingly, the company 
offered to repurchase its stock in exchange for the cocoa beans 
it no longer needed, paying 80 pounds of beans for each share.  

     For several weeks I busily bought shares, sold beans, and 
made periodic stops at Schroeder Trust to exchange stock 