In 2002, junk bonds became very cheap, and we purchased about $8 billion of these. The
pendulum swung quickly though, and this sector now looks decidedly unattractive to us. Yesterday’s
weeds are today being priced as flowers.
We’ve repeatedly emphasized that realized gains at Berkshire are meaningless for analytical
purposes. We have a huge amount of unrealized gains on our books, and our thinking about when, and if,
to cash them depends not at all on a desire to report earnings at one specific time or another. Nevertheless,
to see the diversity of our investment activities, you may be interested in the following table, categorizing
the gains we reported during 2003:
Category
Common Stocks ..............................................................................................................
U.S. Government Bonds..................................................................................................
Junk Bonds ......................................................................................................................
Foreign Exchange Contracts ...........................................................................................
Other................................................................................................................................

Pre-Tax Gain
(in $ million)
$ 448
1,485
1,138
825
233
$4,129

The common stock profits occurred around the edges of our portfolio – not, as we already
mentioned, from our selling down our major positions. The profits in governments arose from our
20

liquidation of long-term strips (the most volatile of government securities) and from certain strategies I
follow within our finance and financial products division. We retained most of our junk portfolio, selling
only a few issues. Calls and maturing bonds accounted for the rest of the gains in the junk category.
During 2002 we entered the foreign currency market for the first time in my life, and in 2003 we
enlarged our position, as I became increasingly bearish on the dollar. I should note that the cemetery for
seers has a huge section set aside for macro forecasters. We have in fact made few macro forecasts at
Berkshire, and we have seldom seen others make them with sustained success.
We have – and will continue to have – the bulk of Berkshire’s net worth in U.S. assets. But in
recent years our country’s trade deficit has been force-feeding huge amounts of claims on, and ownership
in, America to the rest of the world. For a time, foreign appetite for these assets readily absorbed the
supply. Late in 2002, however, the world started choking on this diet, and the dollar’s value began to slide
against major currencies. Even so, prevailing exchange rates will not lead to a material letup in our trade
deficit. So whether foreign investors like it or not, they will continue to be flooded with dollars. The
consequences of this are anybody’s guess. They could, however, be troublesome – and reach, in fact, well
beyond currency markets.
As an American, I hope there is a benign ending to this problem. I myself suggested one possible
solution – which, incidentally, leaves Charlie cold – in a November 10, 2003 article in Fortune Magazine.
Then again, perhaps the alarms I have raised will prove needless: Our country’s dynamism and resiliency
have repeatedly made fools of naysayers. But Berkshire holds many billions of cash-equivalents
denominated in dollars. So I feel more comfortable owning foreign-exchange contracts that are at least a
partial offset to that position.
These contracts are subject to accounting rules that require changes in their value to be
contemporaneously included in capital gains or losses, even though the contracts have not been closed. We
show these changes each quarter in the Finance and Financial Products segment of our earnings statement.
At yearend, our open foreign exchange contracts totaled about $12 billion at market values and were spread
among five currencies. Also, when we were purchasing junk bonds in 2002, we tried when possible to buy
issues denominated in Euros. Today, we own about $1 billion of these.
When we can’t find anything exciting in which to invest, our “default” position is U.S. Treasuries,
both bills and repos. No matter how low the yields on these instruments go, we never “reach” for a little
more income by dropping our credit standards or by extending maturities. Charlie and I detest taking even
small risks unless we feel we are being adequately compensated for doing so. About as far as we will go
down that path is to occasionally eat cottage cheese a day after the expiration date on the carton.
************
A 2003 book that investors can learn much from is Bull! by Maggie Mahar. Two other books I’d
recommend are The Smartest Guys in the Room by Bethany McLean and Peter Elkind, and In an Uncertain
World by Bob Rubin. All three are well-reported and well-written. Additionally, Jason Zweig last year did
a first-class job in revising The Intelligent Investor, my favorite book on investing.
Designated Gifts Program
From 1981 through 2002, Berkshire administered a program whereby shareholders could direct
Berkshire to make gifts to their favorite charitable organizations. Over the years we disbursed $197 million
pursuant to this program. Churches were the most frequently named designees, and many thousands of
other organizations benefited as well. We were the only major public company that offered such a program
to shareholders, and Charlie and I were proud of it.
We reluctantly terminated the program in 2003 because of controversy over the abortion issue.
Over the years numerous organizations on both sides of this issue had been designated by our shareholders
to receive contributions. As a result, we regularly received some objections to the gifts designated for prochoice operations. A few of these came from people and organizations that proceeded to boycott products
21

of our subsidiaries. That did not concern us. We refused all requests to limit the right of our owners to
make whatever gifts they chose (as long as the recipients had 501(c)(3) status).
In 2003, however, many independent associates of The Pampered Chef began to feel the boycotts.
This development meant that people who trusted us – but who were neither employees of ours nor had a
voice in Berkshire decision-making – suffered serious losses of income.
For our shareholders, there was some modest tax efficiency in Berkshire doing the giving rather
than their making their gifts directly. Additionally, the program was consistent with our “partnership”
approach, the first principle set forth in our Owner’s Manual. But these advantages paled when they were
measured against damage done loyal associates who had with great personal effort built businesses of their
own. Indeed, Charlie and I see nothing charitable in harming decent, hard-working people just so we and
other shareholders can gain some minor tax efficiencies.
Berkshire now makes no contributions at the parent company level. Our various subsidiaries
follow philanthropic policies consistent with their practices prior to their acquisition by Berkshire, except
that any personal contributions that former owners had earlier made from their corporate pocketbook are
now funded by them personally.
The Annual Meeting
Last year, I asked you to vote as to whether you wished our annual meeting to be held on Saturday
or Monday. I was hoping for Monday. Saturday won by 2 to 1. It will be a while before shareholder
democracy resurfaces at Berkshire.
But you have spoken, and we will hold this year’s annual meeting on Saturday, May 1 at the new
Qwest Center in downtown Omaha. The Qwest offers us 194,000 square feet for exhibition by our
subsidiaries (up from 65,000 square feet last year) and much more seating capacity as well. The Qwest’s
doors will open at 7 a.m., the movie will begin at 8:30, and the meeting itself will commence at 9:30.
There will be a short break at noon for food. (Sandwiches will be available at the Qwest’s concession
stands.) That interlude aside, Charlie and I will answer questions until 3:30. We will tell you everything
we know . . . and, at least in my case, more.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain
the credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car
reservations, we have again signed up American Express (800-799-6634) to give you special help. They do
a terrific job for us each year, and I thank them for it.
In our usual fashion, we will run vans from the larger hotels to the meeting. Afterwards, the vans
will make trips back to the hotels and to Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim’s and the airport. Even so,
you are likely to find a car useful.
Our exhibition of Berkshire goods and services will blow you away this year. On the floor, for
example, will be a 1,600 square foot Clayton home (featuring Acme brick, Shaw carpet, Johns-Manville
insulation, MiTek fasteners, Carefree awnings, and outfitted with NFM furniture). You’ll find it a far cry
from the mobile-home stereotype of a few decades ago.
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 41 of the 49 jurisdictions in
which we operate. Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you