---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2020
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2020ar/2020ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 248 - 839
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Berkshire earned $42.5 billion in 2020 according to generally accepted accounting principles (commonly
called “GAAP”). The four components of that figure are $21.9 billion of operating earnings, $4.9 billion of realized
capital gains, a $26.7 billion gain from an increase in the amount of net unrealized capital gains that exist in the stocks
we hold and, finally, an $11 billion loss from a write-down in the value of a few subsidiary and affiliate businesses
that we own. All items are stated on an after-tax basis.
Operating earnings are what count most, even during periods when they are not the largest item in our GAAP
total. Our focus at Berkshire is both to increase this segment of our income and to acquire large and favorably-situated
businesses. Last year, however, we met neither goal: Berkshire made no sizable acquisitions and operating earnings
fell 9%. We did, though, increase Berkshire’s per-share intrinsic value by both retaining earnings and repurchasing
about 5% of our shares.
The two GAAP components pertaining to capital gains or losses (whether realized or unrealized) fluctuate
capriciously from year to year, reflecting swings in the stock market. Whatever today’s figures, Charlie Munger, my
long-time partner, and I firmly believe that, over time, Berkshire’s capital gains from its investment holdings will be
substantial.
As I’ve emphasized many times, Charlie and I view Berkshire’s holdings of marketable stocks – at yearend
worth $281 billion – as a collection of businesses. We don’t control the operations of those companies, but we do
share proportionately in their long-term prosperity. From an accounting standpoint, however, our portion of their
earnings is not included in Berkshire’s income. Instead, only what these investees pay us in dividends is recorded on
our books. Under GAAP, the huge sums that investees retain on our behalf become invisible.
What’s out of sight, however, should not be out of mind: Those unrecorded retained earnings are usually
building value – lots of value – for Berkshire. Investees use the withheld funds to expand their business, make
acquisitions, pay off debt and, often, to repurchase their stock (an act that increases our share of their future earnings).
As we pointed out in these pages last year, retained earnings have propelled American business throughout our
country’s history. What worked for Carnegie and Rockefeller has, over the years, worked its magic for millions of
shareholders as well.
Of course, some of our investees will disappoint, adding little, if anything, to the value of their company by
retaining earnings. But others will over-deliver, a few spectacularly. In aggregate, we expect our share of the huge
pile of earnings retained by Berkshire’s non-controlled businesses (what others would label our equity portfolio) to
eventually deliver us an equal or greater amount of capital gains. Over our 56-year tenure, that expectation has been
met.

3

The final component in our GAAP figure – that ugly $11 billion write-down – is almost entirely the
quantification of a mistake I made in 2016. That year, Berkshire purchased Precision Castparts (“PCC”), and I paid
too much for the company.
No one misled me in any way – I was simply too optimistic about PCC’s normalized profit potential. Last
year, my miscalculation was laid bare by adverse developments throughout the aerospace industry, PCC’s most
important source of customers.
In purchasing PCC, Berkshire bought a fine company – the best in its business. Mark Donegan, PCC’s CEO,
is a passionate manager who consistently pours the same energy into the business that he did before we purchased it.
We are lucky to have him running things.
I believe I was right in concluding that PCC would, over time, earn good returns on the net tangible assets
deployed in its operations. I was wrong, however, in judging the average amount of future earnings and, consequently,
wrong in my calculation of the proper price to pay for the business.
PCC is far from my first error of that sort. But it’s a big one.
Two Strings to Our Bow
Berkshire is often labeled a conglomerate, a negative term applied to holding companies that own a
hodge-podge of unrelated businesses. And, yes, that describes Berkshire – but only in part. To understand how and
why we differ from the prototype conglomerate, let’s review a little history.
Over time, conglomerates have generally limited themselves to buying businesses in their entirety. That
strategy, however, came with two major problems. One was unsolvable: Most of the truly great businesses had no
interest in having anyone take them over. Consequently, deal-hungry conglomerateurs had to focus on so-so
companies that lacked important and durable competitive strengths. That was not a great pond in which to fish.
Beyond that, as conglomerateurs dipped into this universe of mediocre businesses, they often found
themselves required to pay staggering “control” premiums to snare their quarry. Aspiring conglomerateurs knew the
answer to this “overpayment” problem: They simply needed to manufacture a vastly overvalued stock of their own
that could be used as a “currency” for pricey acquisitions. (“I’ll pay you $10,000 for your dog by giving you two of
my $5,000 cats.”)
Often, the tools for fostering the overvaluation of a conglomerate’s stock involved promotional techniques
and “imaginative” accounting maneuvers that were, at best, deceptive and that sometimes crossed the line into fraud.
When these tricks were “successful,” the conglomerate pushed its own stock to, say, 3x its business value in order to
offer the target 2x its value.
Investing illusions can continue for a surprisingly long time. Wall Street loves the fees that deal-making
generates, and the press loves the stories that colorful promoters provide. At a point, also, the soaring price of a
promoted stock can itself become the “proof” that an illusion is reality.

4

Eventually, of course, the party ends, and many business “emperors” are found to have no clothes. Financial
history is replete with the names of famous conglomerateurs who were initially lionized as business geniuses by
journalists, analysts and investment bankers, but whose creations ended up as business junkyards.
Conglomerates earned their terrible reputation.
************
Charlie and I want our conglomerate to own all or part of a diverse group of businesses with good economic
characteristics and good managers. Whether Berkshire controls these businesses, however, is unimportant to us.
It took me a while to wise up. But Charlie – and also my 20-year struggle with the textile operation I inherited
at Berkshire – finally convinced me that owning a non-controlling portion of a wonderful business is more profitable,
more enjoyable and far less work than struggling with 100% of a marginal enterprise.
For those reasons, our conglomerate will remain a collection of controlled and non-controlled businesses.
Charlie and I will simply deploy your capital into whatever we believe makes the most sense, based on a company’s
durable competitive strengths, the capabilities and character of its management, and price.
If that strategy requires little or no effort on our part, so much the better. In contrast to the scoring system
utilized in diving competitions, you are awarded no points in business endeavors for “degree of difficulty.”
Furthermore, as Ronald Reagan cautioned: “It’s said that hard work never killed anyone, but I say why take the
chance?”
The Family Jewels and How We Increase Your Share of These Gems
On page A-1 we list Berkshire’s subsidiaries, a smorgasbord of businesses employing 360,000 at yearend.
You can read much more about these controlled operations in the 10-K that fills the back part of this report. Our major
positions in companies that we partly own and don’t control are listed on page 7 of this letter. That portfolio of
businesses, too, is large and diverse.
Most of Berkshire’s value, however, resides in four businesses, three controlled and one in which we have
only a 5.4% interest. All four are jewels.
The largest in value is our property/casualty insurance operation, which for 53 years has been the core of
Berkshire. Our family of insurers is unique in the insurance field. So, too, is its manager, Ajit Jain, who joined
Berkshire in 1986.
Overall, the insurance fleet operates with far more capital than is deployed by any of its competitors
worldwide. That financial strength, coupled with the huge flow of cash Berkshire annually receives from its
non-insurance businesses, allows our insurance companies to safely follow an equity-heavy investment strategy not
feasible for the overwhelming majority of insurers. Those competitors, for both regulatory and credit-rating reasons,
must focus on bonds.
And bonds are not the place to be these days. Can you believe that the income recently available from a
10-year U.S. Treasury bond – the yield was 0.93% at yearend – had fallen 94% from the 15.8% yield available in
September 1981? In certain large and important countries, such as Germany and Japan, investors earn a negative return
on trillions of dollars of sovereign debt. Fixed-income investors worldwide – whether pension funds, insurance