Auditors can’t audit these contracts, and regulators can’t regulate them. When I read the pages of “disclosure” in
10-Ks of companies that are entangled with these instruments, all I end up knowing is that I don’t know what is
going on in their portfolios (and then I reach for some aspirin).
For a case study on regulatory effectiveness, let’s look harder at the Freddie and Fannie example.
These giant institutions were created by Congress, which retained control over them, dictating what they could
and could not do. To aid its oversight, Congress created OFHEO in 1992, admonishing it to make sure the two
behemoths were behaving themselves. With that move, Fannie and Freddie became the most intensely-regulated
companies of which I am aware, as measured by manpower assigned to the task.
On June 15, 2003, OFHEO (whose annual reports are available on the Internet) sent its 2002 report to
Congress – specifically to its four bosses in the Senate and House, among them none other than Messrs. Sarbanes
and Oxley. The report’s 127 pages included a self-congratulatory cover-line: “Celebrating 10 Years of
Excellence.” The transmittal letter and report were delivered nine days after the CEO and CFO of Freddie had
resigned in disgrace and the COO had been fired. No mention of their departures was made in the letter, even
while the report concluded, as it always did, that “Both Enterprises were financially sound and well managed.”
In truth, both enterprises had engaged in massive accounting shenanigans for some time. Finally, in
2006, OFHEO issued a 340-page scathing chronicle of the sins of Fannie that, more or less, blamed the fiasco on
every party but – you guessed it – Congress and OFHEO.
The Bear Stearns collapse highlights the counterparty problem embedded in derivatives transactions, a
time bomb I first discussed in Berkshire’s 2002 report. On April 3, 2008, Tim Geithner, then the able president of
the New York Fed, explained the need for a rescue: “The sudden discovery by Bear’s derivative counterparties
that important financial positions they had put in place to protect themselves from financial risk were no longer
operative would have triggered substantial further dislocation in markets. This would have precipitated a rush by
Bear’s counterparties to liquidate the collateral they held against those positions and to attempt to replicate those
positions in already very fragile markets.” This is Fedspeak for “We stepped in to avoid a financial chain reaction
of unpredictable magnitude.” In my opinion, the Fed was right to do so.
A normal stock or bond trade is completed in a few days with one party getting its cash, the other its
securities. Counterparty risk therefore quickly disappears, which means credit problems can’t accumulate. This
rapid settlement process is key to maintaining the integrity of markets. That, in fact, is a reason for NYSE and
NASDAQ shortening the settlement period from five days to three days in 1995.
Derivatives contracts, in contrast, often go unsettled for years, or even decades, with counterparties
building up huge claims against each other. “Paper” assets and liabilities – often hard to quantify – become
important parts of financial statements though these items will not be validated for many years. Additionally, a
frightening web of mutual dependence develops among huge financial institutions. Receivables and payables by
the billions become concentrated in the hands of a few large dealers who are apt to be highly-leveraged in other
ways as well. Participants seeking to dodge troubles face the same problem as someone seeking to avoid venereal
disease: It’s not just whom you sleep with, but also whom they are sleeping with.

17

Sleeping around, to continue our metaphor, can actually be useful for large derivatives dealers because
it assures them government aid if trouble hits. In other words, only companies having problems that can infect
the entire neighborhood – I won’t mention names – are certain to become a concern of the state (an outcome, I’m
sad to say, that is proper). From this irritating reality comes The First Law of Corporate Survival for ambitious
CEOs who pile on leverage and run large and unfathomable derivatives books: Modest incompetence simply
won’t do; it’s mindboggling screw-ups that are required.
Considering the ruin I’ve pictured, you may wonder why Berkshire is a party to 251 derivatives
contracts (other than those used for operational purposes at MidAmerican and the few left over at Gen Re). The
answer is simple: I believe each contract we own was mispriced at inception, sometimes dramatically so. I both
initiated these positions and monitor them, a set of responsibilities consistent with my belief that the CEO of any
large financial organization must be the Chief Risk Officer as well. If we lose money on our derivatives, it will be
my fault.
Our derivatives dealings require our counterparties to make payments to us when contracts are
initiated. Berkshire therefore always holds the money, which leaves us assuming no meaningful counterparty
risk. As of yearend, the payments made to us less losses we have paid – our derivatives “float,” so to speak –
totaled $8.1 billion. This float is similar to insurance float: If we break even on an underlying transaction, we will
have enjoyed the use of free money for a long time. Our expectation, though it is far from a sure thing, is that we
will do better than break even and that the substantial investment income we earn on the funds will be frosting on
the cake.
Only a small percentage of our contracts call for any posting of collateral when the market moves
against us. Even under the chaotic conditions existing in last year’s fourth quarter, we had to post less than 1% of
our securities portfolio. (When we post collateral, we deposit it with third parties, meanwhile retaining the
investment earnings on the deposited securities.) In our 2002 annual report, we warned of the lethal threat that
posting requirements create, real-life illustrations of which we witnessed last year at a variety of financial
institutions (and, for that matter, at Constellation Energy, which was within hours of bankruptcy when
MidAmerican arrived to effect a rescue).
Our contracts fall into four major categories. With apologies to those who are not fascinated by
financial instruments, I will explain them in excruciating detail.
•

We have added modestly to the “equity put” portfolio I described in last year’s report. Some of our
contracts come due in 15 years, others in 20. We must make a payment to our counterparty at
maturity if the reference index to which the put is tied is then below what it was at the inception of
the contract. Neither party can elect to settle early; it’s only the price on the final day that counts.
To illustrate, we might sell a $1 billion 15-year put contract on the S&P 500 when that index is at,
say, 1300. If the index is at 1170 – down 10% – on the day of maturity, we would pay $100 million.
If it is above 1300, we owe nothing. For us to lose $1 billion, the index would have to go to zero. In
the meantime, the sale of the put would have delivered us a premium – perhaps $100 million to
$150 million – that we would be free to invest as we wish.
Our put contracts total $37.1 billion (at current exchange rates) and are spread among four major
indices: the S&P 500 in the U.S., the FTSE 100 in the U.K., the Euro Stoxx 50 in Europe, and the
Nikkei 225 in Japan. Our first contract comes due on September 9, 2019 and our last on January 24,
2028. We have received premiums of $4.9 billion, money we have invested. We, meanwhile, have
paid nothing, since all expiration dates are far in the future. Nonetheless, we have used BlackScholes valuation methods to record a yearend liability of $10 billion, an amount that will change
on every reporting date. The two financial items – this estimated loss of $10 billion minus the $4.9
billion in premiums we have received – means that we have so far reported a mark-to-market loss
of $5.1 billion from these contracts.

18

We endorse mark-to-market accounting. I will explain later, however, why I believe the BlackScholes formula, even though it is the standard for establishing the dollar liability for options,
produces strange results when the long-term variety are being valued.
One point about our contracts that is sometimes not understood: For us to lose the full $37.1 billion
we have at risk, all stocks in all four indices would have to go to zero on their various termination
dates. If, however – as an example – all indices fell 25% from their value at the inception of each
contract, and foreign-exchange rates remained as they are today, we would owe about $9 billion,
payable between 2019 and 2028. Between the inception of the contract and those dates, we would
have held the $4.9 billion premium and earned investment income on it.
•

The second category we described in last year’s report concerns derivatives requiring us to pay