the possibility that poor underwriting conditions may then 
coincide with depressed financial markets and defaults by 
reinsurer, he will find only a few companies he can trust.  
Among those, Berkshire will lead the pack. 
 
     Our second method of differentiating ourselves is the total 
indifference to volume that we maintain.  In 1989, we will be 
perfectly willing to write five times as much business as we 
write in 1988 - or only one-fifth as much.  We hope, of course, 
that conditions will allow us large volume.  But we cannot 
control market prices.  If they are unsatisfactory, we will 
simply do very little business.  No other major insurer acts with 
equal restraint. 

     Three conditions that prevail in insurance, but not in most 
businesses, allow us our flexibility.  First, market share is not 
an important determinant of profitability: In this business, in 
contrast to the newspaper or grocery businesses, the economic 
rule is not survival of the fattest.  Second, in many sectors of 
insurance, including most of those in which we operate, 
distribution channels are not proprietary and can be easily 
entered: Small volume this year does not preclude huge volume 
next year.  Third, idle capacity - which in this industry largely 
means people - does not result in intolerable costs.  In a way 
that industries such as printing or steel cannot, we can operate 
at quarter-speed much of the time and still enjoy long-term 
prosperity. 

     We follow a price-based-on-exposure, not-on-competition 
policy because it makes sense for our shareholders.  But we're 
happy to report that it is also pro-social.  This policy means 
that we are always available, given prices that we believe are 
adequate, to write huge volumes of almost any type of property-
casualty insurance.  Many other insurers follow an in-and-out 
approach.  When they are "out" - because of mounting losses, 
capital inadequacy, or whatever - we are available.  Of course, 
when others are panting to do business we are also available - 
but at such times we often find ourselves priced above the 
market.  In effect, we supply insurance buyers and brokers with a 
large reservoir of standby capacity. 

     One story from mid-1987 illustrates some consequences of our 
pricing policy:  One of the largest family-owned insurance 
brokers in the country is headed by a fellow who has long been a 
shareholder of Berkshire.  This man handles a number of large 
risks that are candidates for placement with our New York office.  
Naturally, he does the best he can for his clients.  And, just as 
naturally, when the insurance market softened dramatically in 
1987 he found prices at other insurers lower than we were willing 
to offer.  His reaction was, first, to place all of his business 
elsewhere and, second, to buy more stock in Berkshire.  Had we 
been really competitive, he said, we would have gotten his 
insurance business but he would not have bought our stock. 

     Berkshire's underwriting experience was excellent in 1987, 
in part because of the lag factor discussed earlier.  Our 
combined ratio (on a statutory basis and excluding structured 
settlements and financial reinsurance) was 105.  Although the 
ratio was somewhat less favorable than in 1986, when it was 103, 
our profitability improved materially in 1987 because we had the 
use of far more float.  This trend will continue to run in our 
favor: Our ratio of float to premium volume will increase very 
significantly during the next few years.  Thus, Berkshire's 
insurance profits are quite likely to improve during 1988 and 
1989, even though we expect our combined ratio to rise. 

     Our insurance business has also made some important non-
financial gains during the last few years.  Mike Goldberg, its 
manager, has assembled a group of talented professionals to write 
larger risks and unusual coverages.  His operation is now well 
equipped to handle the lines of business that will occasionally 
offer us major opportunities. 

     Our loss reserve development, detailed on pages 41-42, looks 
better this year than it has previously.  But we write lots of 
"long-tail" business - that is, policies generating claims that 
often take many years to resolve.  Examples would be product 
liability, or directors and officers liability coverages.  With a 
business mix like this, one year of reserve development tells you 
very little. 

     You should be very suspicious of any earnings figures 
reported by insurers (including our own, as we have unfortunately 
proved to you in the past).  The record of the last decade shows 
that a great many of our best-known insurers have reported 
earnings to shareholders that later proved to be wildly 
erroneous.  In most cases, these errors were totally innocent: 
The unpredictability of our legal system makes it impossible for 
even the most conscientious insurer to come close to judging the 
eventual cost of long-tail claims. 
 
     Nevertheless, auditors annually certify the numbers given 
them by management and in their opinions unqualifiedly state that 
these figures "present fairly" the financial position of their 
clients.  The auditors use this reassuring language even though 
they know from long and painful experience that the numbers so 
certified are likely to differ dramatically from the true 
earnings of the period.  Despite this history of error, investors 
understandably rely upon auditors' opinions.  After all, a 
declaration saying that "the statements present fairly" hardly 
sounds equivocal to the non-accountant. 

     The wording in the auditor's standard opinion letter is 
scheduled to change next year.  The new language represents 
improvement, but falls far short of describing the limitations of 
a casualty-insurer audit.  If it is to depict the true state of 
affairs, we believe the standard opinion letter to shareholders 
of a property-casualty company should read something like: "We 
have relied upon representations of management in respect to the 
liabilities shown for losses and loss adjustment expenses, the 
estimate of which, in turn, very materially affects the earnings 
and financial condition herein reported.  We can express no 
opinion about the accuracy of these figures.  Subject to that 
important reservation, in our opinion, etc." 

     If lawsuits develop in respect to wildly inaccurate 
financial statements (which they do), auditors will definitely 
say something of that sort in court anyway.  Why should they not 
be forthright about their role and its limitations from the 
outset? 

     We want to emphasize that we are not faulting auditors for 
their inability to accurately assess loss reserves (and therefore 
earnings).  We fault them only for failing to publicly 
acknowledge that they can't do this job. 

     From all appearances, the innocent mistakes that are 
constantly made in reserving are accompanied by others that are 
deliberate.  Various charlatans have enriched themselves at the 
expense of the investing public by exploiting, first, the 
inability of auditors to evaluate reserve figures and, second, 
the auditors' willingness to confidently certify those figures as 
if they had the expertise to do so.  We will continue to see such 
chicanery in the future.  Where "earnings" can be created by the 
stroke of a pen, the dishonest will gather.  For them, long-tail 
insurance is heaven.  The audit wording we suggest would at least 
serve to put investors on guard against these predators. 

     The taxes that insurance companies pay - which increased 
materially, though on a delayed basis, upon enactment of the Tax 
Reform Act of 1986 - took a further turn for the worse at the end 
of 1987.  We detailed the 1986 changes in last year's report.  We 
also commented on the irony of a statute that substantially 
increased 1987 reported earnings for insurers even as it 
materially reduced both their long-term earnings potential and 
their business value.  At Berkshire, the temporarily-helpful 
"fresh start" adjustment inflated 1987 earnings by $8.2 million. 

     In our opinion, the 1986 Act was the most important economic 
event affecting the insurance industry over the past decade.  The 
1987 Bill further reduced the intercorporate dividends-received 
credit from 80% to 70%, effective January 1, 1988, except for 
cases in which the taxpayer owns at least 20% of an investee. 

     Investors who have owned stocks or bonds through corporate 
intermediaries other than qualified investment companies have 
always been disadvantaged in comparison to those owning the same 
securities directly.  The penalty applying to indirect ownership 
was greatly increased by the 1986 Tax Bill and, to a lesser 
extent, by the 1987 Bill, particularly in instances where the 
intermediary is an insurance company.  We have no way of 
offsetting this increased level of taxation.  It simply means 
that a given set of pre-tax investment returns will now translate 
into much poorer after-tax results for our shareholders. 

     All in all, we expect to do well in the insurance business, 
though our record is sure to be uneven.  The immediate outlook is 
for substantially lower volume but reasonable earnings 
improvement.  The decline in premium volume will accelerate after 
our quota-share agreement with Fireman's Fund expires in 1989.  
At some point, likely to be at least a few years away, we may see 
some major opportunities, for which we are now much better 
prepared than we were in 1985.
Marketable Securities - Permanent Holdings
Whenever Charlie and I buy common stocks for Berkshire's 
insurance companies (leaving aside arbitrage purchases, discussed 