Near the end of 2016, Shaw Industries, our floor coverings business, acquired U.S. Floors (“USF”), a rapidly
growing distributor of luxury vinyl tile. USF’s managers, Piet Dossche and Philippe Erramuzpe, came out of the gate
fast, delivering a 40% increase in sales in 2017, during which their operation was integrated with Shaw’s. It’s clear
that we acquired both great human assets and business assets in making the USF purchase.
Š

Vance Bell, Shaw’s CEO, originated, negotiated and completed this acquisition, which increased Shaw’s
sales to $5.7 billion in 2017 and its employment to 22,000. With the purchase of USF, Shaw has substantially
strengthened its position as an important and durable source of earnings for Berkshire.
I have told you several times about HomeServices, our growing real estate brokerage operation. Berkshire
backed into this business in 2000 when we acquired a majority interest in MidAmerican Energy (now named Berkshire
Hathaway Energy). MidAmerican’s activities were then largely in the electric utility field, and I originally paid little
attention to HomeServices.
Š

5

But, year-by-year, the company added brokers and, by the end of 2016, HomeServices was the second-largest
brokerage operation in the country – still ranking, though, far behind the leader, Realogy. In 2017, however,
HomeServices’ growth exploded. We acquired the industry’s third-largest operator, Long and Foster; number 12,
Houlihan Lawrence; and Gloria Nilson.
With those purchases we added 12,300 agents, raising our total to 40,950. HomeServices is now close to
leading the country in home sales, having participated (including our three acquisitions pro-forma) in $127 billion of
“sides” during 2017. To explain that term, there are two “sides” to every transaction; if we represent both buyer and
seller, the dollar value of the transaction is counted twice.
Despite its recent acquisitions, HomeServices is on track to do only about 3% of the country’s homebrokerage business in 2018. That leaves 97% to go. Given sensible prices, we will keep adding brokers in this most
fundamental of businesses.
Finally, Precision Castparts, a company built through acquisitions, bought Wilhelm Schulz GmbH, a
German maker of corrosion resistant fittings, piping systems and components. Please allow me to skip a further
explanation. I don’t understand manufacturing operations as well as I do the activities of real estate brokers, home
builders or truck stops.
Š

Fortunately, I don’t need in this instance to bring knowledge to the table: Mark Donegan, CEO of Precision,
is an extraordinary manufacturing executive, and any business in his domain is slated to do well. Betting on people
can sometimes be more certain than betting on physical assets.
Let’s now move on to operations, beginning with property-casualty (“p/c”) insurance, a business I do
understand and the engine that for 51 years has powered Berkshire’s growth.
Insurance
Before I discuss our 2017 insurance results, let me remind you of how and why we entered the field. We
began by purchasing National Indemnity and a smaller sister company for $8.6 million in early 1967. With our
purchase we received $6.7 million of tangible net worth that, by the nature of the insurance business, we were able to
deploy in marketable securities. It was easy to rearrange the portfolio into securities we would otherwise have owned at
Berkshire itself. In effect, we were “trading dollars” for the net worth portion of the cost.
The $1.9 million premium over net worth that Berkshire paid brought us an insurance business that usually
delivered an underwriting profit. Even more important, the insurance operation carried with it $19.4 million of “float”
– money that belonged to others but was held by our two insurers.
Ever since, float has been of great importance to Berkshire. When we invest these funds, all dividends,
interest and gains from their deployment belong to Berkshire. (If we experience investment losses, those, of course,
are on our tab as well.)
Float materializes at p/c insurers in several ways: (1) Premiums are generally paid to the company upfront
whereas losses occur over the life of the policy, usually a six-month or one-year period; (2) Though some losses, such
as car repairs, are quickly paid, others – such as the harm caused by exposure to asbestos – may take many years to
surface and even longer to evaluate and settle; (3) Loss payments are sometimes spread over decades in cases, say, of
a person employed by one of our workers’ compensation policyholders being permanently injured and thereafter
requiring expensive lifetime care.

6

Float generally grows as premium volume increases. Additionally, certain p/c insurers specialize in lines of
business such as medical malpractice or product liability – business labeled “long-tail” in industry jargon – that
generate far more float than, say, auto collision and homeowner policies, which require insurers to almost immediately
make payments to claimants for needed repairs.
Berkshire has been a leader in long-tail business for many years. In particular, we have specialized in jumbo
reinsurance policies that leave us assuming long-tail losses already incurred by other p/c insurers. As a result of our
emphasizing that sort of business, Berkshire’s growth in float has been extraordinary. We are now the country’s second
largest p/c company measured by premium volume and its leader, by far, in float.
Here’s the record:
(in $ millions)
Year
1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2017

Premium Volume
$

39
185
582
19,343
30,749
60,597

Float
$

39
237
1,632
27,871
65,832
114,500

Our 2017 volume was boosted by a huge deal in which we reinsured up to $20 billion of long-tail losses that
AIG had incurred. Our premium for this policy was $10.2 billion, a world’s record and one we won’t come close to
repeating. Premium volume will therefore fall somewhat in 2018.
Float will probably increase slowly for at least a few years. When we eventually experience a decline, it will
be modest – at most 3% or so in any single year. Unlike bank deposits or life insurance policies containing surrender
options, p/c float can’t be withdrawn. This means that p/c companies can’t experience massive “runs” in times of
widespread financial stress, a characteristic of prime importance to Berkshire that we factor into our investment
decisions.
Charlie and I never will operate Berkshire in a manner that depends on the kindness of strangers – or even
that of friends who may be facing liquidity problems of their own. During the 2008-2009 crisis, we liked having
Treasury Bills – loads of Treasury Bills – that protected us from having to rely on funding sources such as bank lines
or commercial paper. We have intentionally constructed Berkshire in a manner that will allow it to comfortably
withstand economic discontinuities, including such extremes as extended market closures.
************
The downside of float is that it comes with risk, sometimes oceans of risk. What looks predictable in insurance
can be anything but. Take the famous Lloyds insurance market, which produced decent results for three centuries. In
the 1980’s, though, huge latent problems from a few long-tail lines of insurance surfaced at Lloyds and, for a time,
threatened to destroy its storied operation. (It has, I should add, fully recovered.)
Berkshire’s insurance managers are conservative and careful underwriters, who operate in a culture that has
long prioritized those qualities. That disciplined behavior has produced underwriting profits in most years, and in such
instances, our cost of float was less than zero. In effect, we got paid then for holding the huge sums tallied in the
earlier table.
I have warned you, however, that we have been fortunate in recent years and that the catastrophe-light period
the industry was experiencing was not a new norm. Last September drove home that point, as three significant
hurricanes hit Texas, Florida and Puerto Rico.

7

My guess at this time is that the insured losses arising from the hurricanes are $100 billion or so. That figure,
however, could be far off the mark. The pattern with most mega-catastrophes has been that initial loss estimates ran
low. As well-known analyst V.J. Dowling has pointed out, the loss reserves of an insurer are similar to a self-graded
exam. Ignorance, wishful thinking or, occasionally, downright fraud can deliver inaccurate figures about an insurer’s
financial condition for a very long time.
We currently estimate Berkshire’s losses from the three hurricanes to be $3 billion (or about $2 billion after
tax). If both that estimate and my industry estimate of $100 billion are close to accurate, our share of the industry loss
was about 3%. I believe that percentage is also what we may reasonably expect to be our share of losses in future
American mega-cats.
It’s worth noting that the $2 billion net cost from the three hurricanes reduced Berkshire’s GAAP net worth
by less than 1%. Elsewhere in the reinsurance industry there were many companies that suffered losses in net worth
ranging from 7% to more than 15%. The damage to them could have been far worse: Had Hurricane Irma followed a
path through Florida only a bit to the east, insured losses might well have been an additional $100 billion.
We believe that the annual probability of a U.S. mega-catastrophe causing $400 billion or more of insured