that's good, not bad.  Severe change and exceptional returns 
usually don't mix.  Most investors, of course, behave as if just 
the opposite were true.  That is, they usually confer the highest 
price-earnings ratios on exotic-sounding businesses that hold out 
the promise of feverish change.  That prospect lets investors 
fantasize about future profitability rather than face today's 
business realities.  For such investor-dreamers, any blind date 
is preferable to one with the girl next door, no matter how 
desirable she may be. 

     Experience, however, indicates that the best business 
returns are usually achieved by companies that are doing 
something quite similar today to what they were doing five or ten 
years ago.  That is no argument for managerial complacency.  
Businesses always have opportunities to improve service, product 
lines, manufacturing techniques, and the like, and obviously 
these opportunities should be seized.  But a business that 
constantly encounters major change also encounters many chances 
for major error.  Furthermore, economic terrain that is forever 
shifting violently is ground on which it is difficult to build a 
fortress-like business franchise.  Such a franchise is usually 
the key to sustained high returns. 

     The
Fortune
study I mentioned earlier supports our view.  
Only 25 of the 1,000 companies met two tests of economic 
excellence - an average return on equity of over 20% in the ten 
years, 1977 through 1986, and no year worse than 15%.  These 
business superstars were also stock market superstars: During the 
decade, 24 of the 25 outperformed the S&P 500. 
 
     The
Fortune
champs may surprise you in two respects.  First, 
most use very little leverage compared to their interest-paying 
capacity.  Really good businesses usually don't need to borrow.  
Second, except for one company that is "high-tech" and several 
others that manufacture ethical drugs, the companies are in 
businesses that, on balance, seem rather mundane.  Most sell non-
sexy products or services in much the same manner as they did ten 
years ago (though in larger quantities now, or at higher prices, 
or both).  The record of these 25 companies confirms that making 
the most of an already strong business franchise, or 
concentrating on a single winning business theme, is what usually 
produces exceptional economics. 

     Berkshire's experience has been similar.  Our managers have 
produced extraordinary results by doing rather ordinary things - 
but doing them exceptionally well.  Our managers protect their 
franchises, they control costs, they search for new products and 
markets that build on their existing strengths and they don't get 
diverted.  They work exceptionally hard at the details of their 
businesses, and it shows. 

     Here's an update:
o
Agatha Christie, whose husband was an archaeologist, said 
that was the perfect profession for one's spouse: "The older you 
become, the more interested they are in you." It is students of 
business management, not archaeologists, who should be interested 
in Mrs. B (Rose Blumkin), the 94-year-old chairman of Nebraska 
Furniture Mart. 

     Fifty years ago Mrs. B started the business with $500, and 
today NFM is far and away the largest home furnishings store in 
the country.  Mrs. B continues to work seven days a week at the 
job from the opening of each business day until the close.  She 
buys, she sells, she manages - and she runs rings around the 
competition.  It's clear to me that she's gathering speed and may 
well reach her full potential in another five or ten years.  
Therefore, I've persuaded the Board to scrap our mandatory 
retirement-at-100 policy. (And it's about time:  With every 
passing year, this policy has seemed sillier to me.) 

     Net sales of NFM were $142.6 million in 1987, up 8% from 
1986.  There's nothing like this store in the country, and 
there's nothing like the family Mrs. B has produced to carry on: 
Her son Louie, and his three boys, Ron, Irv and Steve, possess 
the business instincts, integrity and drive of Mrs. B. They work 
as a team and, strong as each is individually, the whole is far 
greater than the sum of the parts. 

     The superb job done by the Blumkins benefits us as owners, 
but even more dramatically benefits NFM's customers.  They saved 
about $30 million in 1987 by buying from NFM.  In other words, 
the goods they bought would have cost that much more if purchased 
elsewhere. 

     You'll enjoy an anonymous letter I received last August: 
"Sorry to see Berkshire profits fall in the second quarter.  One 
way you may gain back part of your lost. (sic) Check the pricing 
at The Furniture Mart.  You will find that they are leaving 10% 
to 20% on the table.  This additional profit on $140 million of 
sells (sic) is $28 million.  Not small change in anyone's pocket!  
Check out other furniture, carpet, appliance and T.V. dealers.  
Your raising prices to a reasonable profit will help.  Thank you. 
/signed/ A Competitor." 

     NFM will continue to grow and prosper by following Mrs. B's 
maxim:  "Sell cheap and tell the truth."
o
Among dominant papers of its size or larger, the Buffalo 
News continues to be the national leader in two important ways: 
(1) its weekday and Sunday penetration rate (the percentage of 
households in the paper's primary market area that purchase it); 
and (2) its "news-hole" percentage (the portion of the paper 
devoted to news).

     It may not be coincidence that one newspaper leads in both 
categories: an exceptionally "newsrich" product makes for broad 
audience appeal, which in turn leads to high penetration.  Of 
course, quantity must be matched by quality.  This not only 
means good reporting and good writing; it means freshness and 
relevance.  To be indispensable, a paper must promptly tell its 
readers many things they want to know but won't otherwise learn 
until much later, if ever. 
 
     At the News, we put out seven fresh editions every 24 hours, 
each one extensively changed in content.  Here's a small example 
that may surprise you: We redo the obituary page in every edition 
of the News, or seven times a day.  Any obituary added runs 
through the next six editions until the publishing cycle has been 
completed. 

     It's vital, of course, for a newspaper to cover national and 
international news well and in depth.  But it is also vital for 
it to do what only a local newspaper can: promptly and 
extensively chronicle the personally-important, otherwise-
unreported details of community life.  Doing this job well 
requires a very broad range of news - and that means lots of 
space, intelligently used. 

     Our news hole was about 50% in 1987, just as it has been 
year after year.  If we were to cut it to a more typical 40%, we 
would save approximately $4 million annually in newsprint costs.  
That interests us not at all - and it won't interest us even if, 
for one reason or another, our profit margins should 
significantly shrink. 

     Charlie and I do not believe in flexible operating budgets, 
as in "Non-direct expenses can be X if revenues are Y, but must 
be reduced if revenues are Y - 5%." Should we really cut our news 
hole at the Buffalo News, or the quality of product and service 
at See's, simply because profits are down during a given year or 
quarter?  Or, conversely, should we add a staff economist, a 
corporate strategist, an institutional advertising campaign or 
something else that does Berkshire no good simply because the 
money currently is rolling in? 

     That makes no sense to us.  We neither understand the adding 
of unneeded people or activities because profits are booming, nor 
the cutting of essential people or activities because 
profitability is shrinking.  That kind of yo-yo approach is 
neither business-like nor humane.  Our goal is to do what makes 
sense for Berkshire's customers and employees at all times, and 
never to add the unneeded. ("But what about
the corporate jet
?" 
you rudely ask.  Well, occasionally a man must rise above 
principle.) 

     Although the News' revenues have grown only moderately since 
1984, superb management by Stan Lipsey, its publisher, has 
produced excellent profit growth.  For several years, I have 
incorrectly predicted that profit margins at the News would fall.  
This year I will not let vou down: Margins will, without 
question, shrink in 1988 and profit may fall as well.  
Skyrocketing newsprint costs will be the major cause.
o
Fechheimer Bros. Company is another of our family 
businesses - and, like the Blumkins, what a family.  Three 
generations of Heldmans have for decades consistently, built the 
sales and profits of this manufacturer and distributor of 
uniforms.  In the year that Berkshire acquired its controlling 
interest in Fechheimer - 1986 - profits were a record.  The 
Heldmans didn't slow down after that.  Last year earnings 
increased substantially and the outlook is good for 1988. 

     There's nothing magic about the Uniform business; the only 
magic is in the Heldmans.  Bob, George, Gary, Roger and Fred know 
the business inside and out, and they have fun running it.  We 
are fortunate to be in partnership with them.
o
Chuck Huggins continues to set new records at See's, just as 
he has ever since we put him in charge on the day of our purchase 