record date or because they fail to get the designation form back to us 
within the 60-day period allowed.  This is distressing to Charlie and me. 
But if replies are received late, we have to reject them because we 
can't make exceptions for some shareholders while refusing to make them 
for others.
To participate in future programs, you must own Class A shares that 
are registered in the name of the actual owner, not the nominee name of a 
broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so registered on August 31, 1997, 
will be ineligible for the 1997 program.  When you get the form, return 
it promptly so that it does not get put aside or forgotten.
The Annual Meeting
Our capitalist's version of Woodstock -the Berkshire Annual Meeting-
will be held on Monday, May 5.  Charlie and I thoroughly enjoy this 
event, and we hope that you come.  We will start at 9:30 a.m., break for 
about 15 minutes at noon (food will be available - but at a price, of 
course), and then continue talking to hard-core attendees until at least 
3:30.  Last year we had representatives from all 50 states, as well as 
Australia, Greece, Israel, Portugal, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, and 
the United Kingdom.  The annual meeting is a time for owners to get their 
business-related questions answered, and therefore Charlie and I will 
stay on stage until we start getting punchy.  (When that happens, I hope 
you notice a change.)

     Last year we had attendance of 5,000 and strained the capacity of 
the Holiday Convention Centre, even though we spread out over three 
rooms.  This year, our new Class B shares have caused a doubling of our 
stockholder count, and we are therefore moving the meeting to the 
Aksarben Coliseum, which holds about 10,000 and also has a huge parking 
lot.  The doors will open for the meeting at 7:00 a.m., and at 8:30 we 
will - upon popular demand - show a new Berkshire movie produced by Marc 
Hamburg, our CFO.  (In this company, no one gets by with doing only a 
single job.)

     Overcoming our legendary repugnance for activities even faintly 
commercial, we will also have an abundant array of Berkshire products
for 
sale
in the halls outside the meeting room.  Last year we broke all 
records, selling 1,270 pounds of See's candy, 1,143 pairs of Dexter 
shoes, $29,000 of World Books and related publications, and 700 sets of 
knives manufactured by our Quikut subsidiary.  Additionally, many 
shareholders made inquiries about GEICO auto policies.  If you would like 
to investigate possible insurance savings, bring your present policy to 
the meeting.  We estimate that about 40% of our shareholders can save 
money by insuring with us.  (We'd like to say 100%, but the insurance 
business doesn't work that way:  Because insurers differ in their 
underwriting judgments, some of our shareholders are currently paying 
rates that are lower than GEICO's.)

     An attachment to the proxy material enclosed with this report 
explains how you can obtain the card you will need for admission to the 
meeting.  We expect a large crowd, so get both plane and hotel 
reservations promptly.  American Express (800-799-6634) will be happy to 
help you with arrangements.  As usual, we will have buses servicing the 
larger hotels to take you to and from the meeting, and also to take you 
to Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim's and the airport after it is over.

     NFM's main store, located on a 75-acre site about a mile from 
Aksarben, is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on weekdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
on Saturdays, and noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays.  Come by and say hello to 
"Mrs. B" (Rose Blumkin).  She's 103 now and sometimes operates with an 
oxygen mask that is attached to a tank on her cart.  But if you try to 
keep pace with her, it will be you who needs oxygen.  NFM did about $265 
million of business last year - a record for a single-location home 
furnishings operation - and you'll see why once you check out its 
merchandise and prices.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open for 
shareholders from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on May 4th.  Last year on 
"Shareholder Sunday" we broke every Borsheim's record in terms of 
tickets, dollar volume and, no doubt, attendees per square inch.  Because 
we expect a capacity crowd this year as well, all shareholders attending 
on Sunday must bring their admission cards.  Shareholders who prefer a 
somewhat less frenzied experience will get the same special treatment on 
Saturday, when the store is open from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., or on Monday 
between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m.  Come by at any time this year and let Susan 
Jacques, Borsheim's CEO, and her skilled associates perform a painless 
walletectomy on you.

     My favorite steakhouse, Gorat's, was sold out last year on the 
weekend of the annual meeting, even though it added an additional seating 
at 4 p.m. on Sunday.  You can make reservations beginning on April 1st
(but not earlier)
by calling 402-551-3733.  I will be at Gorat's on 
Sunday after Borsheim's, having my usual rare T-bone and double order of 
hashbrowns.  I can also recommend - this is the standard fare when Debbie 
Bosanek, my invaluable assistant, and I go to lunch - the hot roast beef 
sandwich with mashed potatoes and gravy.  Mention Debbie's name and you 
will be given an extra boat of gravy.

     The Omaha Royals and Indianapolis Indians will play baseball on 
Saturday evening, May 3rd, at Rosenblatt Stadium.  Pitching in my normal 
rotation - one throw a year - I will start.

     Though Rosenblatt is normal in appearance, it is anything but:  The 
field sits on a unique geological structure that occasionally emits short 
gravitational waves causing even the most smoothly-delivered pitch to 
sink violently.  I have been the victim of this weird phenomenon several 
times in the past but am hoping for benign conditions this year.  There 
will be lots of opportunities for photos at the ball game, but you will 
need incredibly fast reflexes to snap my fast ball en route to the plate.

     Our proxy statement includes information about obtaining tickets to 
the game.  We will also provide an information packet listing restaurants 
that will be open on Sunday night and describing various things that you 
can do in Omaha on the weekend.  The entire gang at Berkshire looks 
forward to seeing you.



						Warren E. Buffett
February 28, 1997				Chairman of the Board
