pay a very high price in the stock market for a cheery consensus."
At that time skepticism and disappointment prevailed, and my point was
that investors should be glad of the fact, since pessimism drives down
prices to truly attractive levels. Now, however, we have a very cheery
consensus. That does not necessarily mean this is the wrong time to buy
stocks: Corporate America is now earning far more money than it was just
a few years ago, and in the presence of lower interest rates, every dollar
of earnings becomes more valuable. Today's price levels, though, have materially
eroded the "margin of safety" that Ben Graham identified as the
cornerstone of intelligent investing.

* * * * * * * * * * * *

In last year's annual report, I
discussed Coca-Cola, our largest holding. Coke continues to increase its
market dominance throughout the world, but, tragically, it has lost the
leader responsible for its outstanding performance. Roberto Goizueta, Coke's
CEO since 1981, died in October. After his death, I read every one of the
more than 100 letters and notes he had written me during the past nine
years. Those messages could well serve as a guidebook for success in both
business and life.

In these communications, Roberto
displayed a brilliant and clear strategic vision that was always aimed
at advancing the well-being of Coke shareholders. Roberto knew where he
was leading the company, how he was going to get there, and why this path
made the most sense for his owners -- and, equally important, he had a
burning sense of urgency about reaching his goals. An excerpt from one
handwritten note he sent to me illustrates his mind-set: "By the way,
I have told Olguita that what she refers to as an obsession, you call focus.
I like your term much better." Like all who knew Roberto, I will miss
him enormously.

Consistent with his concern for
the company, Roberto prepared for a seamless succession long before it
seemed necessary. Roberto knew that Doug Ivester was the right man to take
over and worked with Doug over the years to ensure that no momentum would
be lost when the time for change arrived. The Coca-Cola Company will be
the same steamroller under Doug as it was under Roberto.

Convertible Preferreds

Two years ago, I gave you an update
on the five convertible preferreds that we purchased through private placements
in the 1987-1991 period. At the time of that earlier report, we had realized
a small profit on the sale of our Champion International holding. The four
remaining preferred commitments included two, Gillette and First Empire
State, that we had converted into common stock in which we had large unrealized
gains, and two others, USAir and Salomon, that had been trouble-prone.
At times, the last two had me mouthing a line from a country song: "How
can I miss you if you won't go away?"

Since I delivered that report,
all four holdings have grown significantly in value. The common stocks
of both Gillette and First Empire have risen substantially, in line with
the companies' excellent performance. At yearend, the $600 million we put
into Gillette in 1989 had appreciated to $4.8 billion, and the $40 million
we committed to First Empire in 1991 had risen to $236 million.

Our two laggards, meanwhile, have
come to life in a very major way. In a transaction that finally rewarded
its long-suffering shareholders, Salomon recently merged into Travelers
Group. All of Berkshire's shareholders -- including me, very personally
-- owe a huge debt to Deryck Maughan and Bob Denham for, first, playing
key roles in saving Salomon from extinction following its 1991 scandal
and, second, restoring the vitality of the company to a level that made
it an attractive acquisition for Travelers. I have often said that I wish
to work with executives that I like, trust and admire. No two fit that
description better than Deryck and Bob.

Berkshire's final results from
its Salomon investment won't be tallied for some time, but it is safe to
say that they will be far better than I anticipated two years ago. Looking
back, I think of my Salomon experience as having been both fascinating
and instructional, though for a time in 1991-92 I felt like the drama critic
who wrote: "I would have enjoyed the play except that I had an unfortunate
seat. It faced the stage."

The resuscitation of US Airways
borders on the miraculous. Those who have watched my moves in this investment
know that I have compiled a record that is unblemished by success. I was
wrong in originally purchasing the stock, and I was wrong later, in repeatedly
trying to unload our holdings at 50 cents on the dollar.

Two changes at the company coincided
with its remarkable rebound: 1) Charlie and I left the board of directors
and 2) Stephen Wolf became CEO. Fortunately for our egos, the second event
was the key: Stephen Wolf's accomplishments at the airline have been phenomenal.

There still is much to do at US
Airways, but survival is no longer an issue. Consequently, the company
made up the dividend arrearages on our preferred during 1997, adding extra
payments to compensate us for the delay we suffered. The company's common
stock, furthermore, has risen from a low of $4 to a recent high of $73.

Our preferred has been called for
redemption on March 15. But the rise in the company's stock has given our
conversion rights, which we thought worthless not long ago, great value.
It is now almost certain that our US Airways shares will produce a decent
profit -- that is, if my cost for Maalox is excluded -- and the gain could
even prove indecent.

Next time I make a big, dumb decision,
Berkshire shareholders will know what to do: Phone Mr. Wolf .

* * * * * * * * * * * *

In addition to the convertible
preferreds, we purchased one other private placement in 1991, $300 million
of American Express Percs. This security was essentially a common stock
that featured a tradeoff in its first three years: We received extra dividend
payments during that period, but we were also capped in the price appreciation
we could realize. Despite the cap, this holding has proved extraordinarily
profitable thanks to a move by your Chairman that combined luck and skill
-- 110% luck, the balance skill.

Our Percs were due to convert into
common stock in August 1994, and in the month before I was mulling whether
to sell upon conversion. One reason to hold was Amex's outstanding CEO,
Harvey Golub, who seemed likely to maximize whatever potential the company
had (a supposition that has since been proved -- in spades). But the size
of that potential was in question: Amex faced relentless competition from
a multitude of card-issuers, led by Visa. Weighing the arguments, I leaned
toward sale.

Here's where I got lucky. During
that month of decision, I played golf at Prouts Neck, Maine with Frank
Olson, CEO of Hertz. Frank is a brilliant manager, with intimate knowledge
of the card business. So from the first tee on I was quizzing him about
the industry. By the time we reached the second green, Frank had convinced
me that Amex's corporate card was a terrific franchise, and I had decided
not to sell. On the back nine I turned buyer, and in a few months Berkshire
owned 10% of the company.

We now have a $3 billion gain in
our Amex shares, and I naturally feel very grateful to Frank. But George
Gillespie, our mutual friend, says that I am confused about where my gratitude
should go. After all, he points out, it was he who arranged the game and
assigned me to Frank's foursome.

Quarterly Reports to Shareholders

In last year's letter, I described
the growing costs we incur in mailing quarterly reports and the problems
we have encountered in delivering them to "street-name" shareholders.
I asked for your opinion about the desirability of our continuing to print
reports, given that we now publish our quarterly and annual communications
on the Internet, at our site, www.berkshirehathaway.com. Relatively few
shareholders responded, but it is clear that at least a small number who
want the quarterly information have no interest in getting it off the Internet.
Being a life-long sufferer from technophobia, I can empathize with this
group.

The cost of publishing quarterlies,
however, continues to balloon, and we have therefore decided to send printed
versions only to shareholders who request them. If you wish the quarterlies,
please complete the reply card that is bound into this report. In the meantime,
be assured that all shareholders will continue to receive the annual report in printed form.

Those of you who enjoy the computer
should check out our home page. It contains a large amount of current information
about Berkshire and also all of our annual letters since 1977. In addition,
our website includes links to the home pages of many Berkshire subsidiaries.