---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2015
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2015ar/2015ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 329 - 1902
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Berkshire’s gain in net worth during 2015 was $15.4 billion, which increased the per-share book value of
both our Class A and Class B stock by 6.4%. Over the last 51 years (that is, since present management took over),
per-share book value has grown from $19 to $155,501, a rate of 19.2% compounded annually.*
During the first half of those years, Berkshire’s net worth was roughly equal to the number that really
counts: the intrinsic value of the business. The similarity of the two figures existed then because most of our
resources were deployed in marketable securities that were regularly revalued to their quoted prices (less the tax that
would be incurred if they were to be sold). In Wall Street parlance, our balance sheet was then in very large part
“marked to market.”
By the early 1990s, however, our focus had changed to the outright ownership of businesses, a shift that
diminished the relevance of balance-sheet figures. That disconnect occurred because the accounting rules that apply
to controlled companies are materially different from those used in valuing marketable securities. The carrying
value of the “losers” we own is written down, but “winners” are never revalued upwards.
We’ve had experience with both outcomes: I’ve made some dumb purchases, and the amount I paid for the
economic goodwill of those companies was later written off, a move that reduced Berkshire’s book value. We’ve
also had some winners – a few of them very big – but have not written those up by a penny.
Over time, this asymmetrical accounting treatment (with which we agree) necessarily widens the gap
between intrinsic value and book value. Today, the large – and growing – unrecorded gains at our “winners” make it
clear that Berkshire’s intrinsic value far exceeds its book value. That’s why we would be delighted to repurchase
our shares should they sell as low as 120% of book value. At that level, purchases would instantly and meaningfully
increase per-share intrinsic value for Berkshire’s continuing shareholders.
The unrecorded increase in the value of our owned businesses explains why Berkshire’s aggregate marketvalue gain – tabulated on the facing page – materially exceeds our book-value gain. The two indicators vary
erratically over short periods. Last year, for example, book-value performance was superior. Over time, however,
market-value gains should continue their historical tendency to exceed gains in book value.

* All per-share figures used in this report apply to Berkshire’s A shares. Figures for the B shares are 1/1500th of
those shown for A.

3

The Year at Berkshire
Charlie Munger, Berkshire Vice Chairman and my partner, and I expect Berkshire’s normalized earning
power to increase every year. (Actual year-to-year earnings, of course, will sometimes decline because of weakness
in the U.S. economy or, possibly, because of insurance mega-catastrophes.) In some years the normalized gains will
be small; at other times they will be material. Last year was a good one. Here are the highlights:
‹

The most important development at Berkshire during 2015 was not financial, though it led to better
earnings. After a poor performance in 2014, our BNSF railroad dramatically improved its service to
customers last year. To attain that result, we invested about $5.8 billion during the year in capital
expenditures, a sum far and away the record for any American railroad and nearly three times our annual
depreciation charge. It was money well spent.
BNSF moves about 17% of America’s intercity freight (measured by revenue ton-miles), whether
transported by rail, truck, air, water or pipeline. In that respect, we are a strong number one among the
seven large American railroads (two of which are Canadian-based), carrying 45% more ton-miles of freight
than our closest competitor. Consequently, our maintaining first-class service is not only vital to our
shippers’ welfare but also important to the smooth functioning of the U.S. economy.
For most American railroads, 2015 was a disappointing year. Aggregate ton-miles fell, and earnings
weakened as well. BNSF, however, maintained volume, and pre-tax income rose to a record $6.8 billion*
(a gain of $606 million from 2014). Matt Rose and Carl Ice, the managers of BNSF, have my thanks and
deserve yours.

‹

BNSF is the largest of our “Powerhouse Five,” a group that also includes Berkshire Hathaway Energy,
Marmon, Lubrizol and IMC. Combined, these companies – our five most profitable non-insurance
businesses – earned $13.1 billion in 2015, an increase of $650 million over 2014.
Of the five, only Berkshire Hathaway Energy, then earning $393 million, was owned by us in 2003.
Subsequently, we purchased three of the other four on an all-cash basis. In acquiring BNSF, however, we
paid about 70% of the cost in cash and, for the remainder, issued Berkshire shares that increased the
number outstanding by 6.1%. In other words, the $12.7 billion gain in annual earnings delivered Berkshire
by the five companies over the twelve-year span has been accompanied by only minor dilution. That
satisfies our goal of not simply increasing earnings, but making sure we also increase per-share results.

‹

Next year, I will be discussing the “Powerhouse Six.” The newcomer will be Precision Castparts Corp.
(“PCC”), a business that we purchased a month ago for more than $32 billion of cash. PCC fits perfectly
into the Berkshire model and will substantially increase our normalized per-share earning power.
Under CEO Mark Donegan, PCC has become the world’s premier supplier of aerospace components (most
of them destined to be original equipment, though spares are important to the company as well). Mark’s
accomplishments remind me of the magic regularly performed by Jacob Harpaz at IMC, our remarkable
Israeli manufacturer of cutting tools. The two men transform very ordinary raw materials into extraordinary
products that are used by major manufacturers worldwide. Each is the da Vinci of his craft.
PCC’s products, often delivered under multi-year contracts, are key components in most large aircraft.
Other industries are served as well by the company’s 30,466 employees, who work out of 162 plants in 13
countries. In building his business, Mark has made many acquisitions and will make more. We look
forward to having him deploy Berkshire’s capital.

* Throughout this letter, all earnings are stated on a pre-tax basis unless otherwise designated.
4

A personal thank-you: The PCC acquisition would not have happened without the input and assistance of
our own Todd Combs, who brought the company to my attention a few years ago and went on to educate
me about both the business and Mark. Though Todd and Ted Weschler are primarily investment managers
– they each handle about $9 billion for us – both of them cheerfully and ably add major value to Berkshire
in other ways as well. Hiring these two was one of my best moves.
‹

With the PCC acquisition, Berkshire will own 10 1⁄ 4 companies that would populate the Fortune 500 if they
were stand-alone businesses. (Our 27% holding of Kraft Heinz is the 1⁄ 4.) That leaves just under 98% of
America’s business giants that have yet to call us. Operators are standing by.

‹

Our many dozens of smaller non-insurance businesses earned $5.7 billion last year, up from $5.1 billion in
2014. Within this group, we have one company that last year earned more than $700 million, two that
earned between $400 million and $700 million, seven that earned between $250 million and $400 million,
six that earned between $100 million and $250 million, and eleven that earned between $50 million and
$100 million. We love them all: This collection of businesses will expand both in number and earnings as
the years go by.

‹

When you hear talk about America’s crumbling infrastructure, rest assured that they’re not talking about
Berkshire. We invested $16 billion in property, plant and equipment last year, a full 86% of it deployed in
the United States.
I told you earlier about BNSF’s record capital expenditures in 2015. At the end of every year, our railroad’s
physical facilities will be improved from those existing twelve months earlier.
Berkshire Hathaway Energy (“BHE”) is a similar story. That company has invested $16 billion in
renewables and now owns 7% of the country’s wind generation and 6% of its solar generation. Indeed, the
4,423 megawatts of wind generation owned and operated by our regulated utilities is six times the
generation of the runner-up utility.
We’re not done. Last year, BHE made major commitments to the future development of renewables in
support of the Paris Climate Change Conference. Our fulfilling those promises will make great sense, both
for the environment and for Berkshire’s economics.

‹

Berkshire’s huge and growing insurance operation again operated at an underwriting profit in 2015 – that
makes 13 years in a row – and increased its float. During those years, our float – money that doesn’t belong
to us but that we can invest for Berkshire’s benefit – grew from $41 billion to $88 billion. Though neither