# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1982

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
March 3, 1983
To the Stockholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Operating earnings of $31.5 million in 1982 amounted to only 
9.8% of beginning equity capital (valuing securities at cost), 
down from 15.2% in 1981 and far below our recent high of 19.4% in 
1978.  This decline largely resulted from:

     (1) a significant deterioration in insurance underwriting 
         results;

     (2) a considerable expansion of equity capital without a 
         corresponding growth in the businesses we operate 
         directly; and

     (3) a continually-enlarging commitment of our resources to 
         investment in partially-owned, nonoperated businesses; 
         accounting rules dictate that a major part of our 
         pro-rata share of earnings from such businesses must be 
         excluded from Berkshire’s reported earnings.

     It was only a few years ago that we told you that the 
operating earnings/equity capital percentage, with proper 
allowance for a few other variables, was the most important 
yardstick of single-year managerial performance.  While we still 
believe this to be the case with the vast majority of companies, 
we believe its utility in our own case has greatly diminished.  
You should be suspicious of such an assertion.  Yardsticks seldom 
are discarded while yielding favorable readings.  But when 
results deteriorate, most managers favor disposition of the 
yardstick rather than disposition of the manager.

     To managers faced with such deterioration, a more flexible 
measurement system often suggests itself: just shoot the arrow of 
business performance into a blank canvas and then carefully draw 
the bullseye around the implanted arrow.  We generally believe in 
pre-set, long-lived and small bullseyes.  However, because of the 
importance of item (3) above, further explained in the following 
section, we believe our abandonment of the operating 
earnings/equity capital bullseye to be warranted.
Non-Reported Ownership Earnings
The appended financial statements reflect “accounting” 
earnings that generally include our proportionate share of 
earnings from any underlying business in which our ownership is 
at least 20%.  Below the 20% ownership figure, however, only our 
share of dividends paid by the underlying business units is 
included in our accounting numbers; undistributed earnings of 
such less-than-20%-owned businesses are totally ignored.

     There are a few exceptions to this rule; e.g., we own about 
35% of GEICO Corporation but, because we have assigned our voting 
rights, the company is treated for accounting purposes as a less-
than-20% holding.  Thus, dividends received from GEICO in 1982 of 
$3.5 million after tax are the only item included in our 
“accounting”earnings.  An additional $23 million that represents 
our share of GEICO’s undistributed operating earnings for 1982 is 
totally excluded from our reported operating earnings.  If GEICO 
had earned less money in 1982 but had paid an additional $1 
million in dividends, our reported earnings would have been 
larger despite the poorer business results.  Conversely, if GEICO 
had earned an additional $100 million - and retained it all - our 
reported earnings would have been unchanged.  Clearly 
“accounting” earnings can seriously misrepresent economic 
reality.

     We prefer a concept of “economic” earnings that includes all 
undistributed earnings, regardless of ownership percentage.  In 
our view, the value to all owners of the retained earnings of a 
business enterprise is determined by the effectiveness with which 
those earnings are used - and not by the size of one’s ownership 
percentage.  If you have owned .01 of 1% of Berkshire during the 
past decade, you have benefited economically in full measure from 
your share of our retained earnings, no matter what your 
accounting system.  Proportionately, you have done just as well 
as if you had owned the magic 20%.  But if you have owned 100% of 
a great many capital-intensive businesses during the decade, 
retained earnings that were credited fully and with painstaking 
precision to you under standard accounting methods have resulted 
in minor or zero economic value.  This is not a criticism of 
accounting procedures.  We would not like to have the job of 
designing a better system.  It’s simply to say that managers and 
investors alike must understand that accounting numbers are the 
beginning, not the end, of business valuation.

     In most corporations, less-than-20% ownership positions are 
unimportant (perhaps, in part, because they prevent maximization 
of cherished reported earnings) and the distinction between 
accounting and economic results we have just discussed matters 
little.  But in our own case, such positions are of very large 
and growing importance.  Their magnitude, we believe, is what 
makes our reported operating earnings figure of limited 
significance.

     In our 1981 annual report we predicted that our share of 
undistributed earnings from four of our major non-controlled 
holdings would aggregate over $35 million in 1982.  With no 
change in our holdings of three of these companies - GEICO, 
General Foods and The Washington Post - and a considerable 
increase in our ownership of the fourth, R. J. Reynolds 
Industries, our share of undistributed 1982 operating earnings of 
this group came to well over $40 million.  This number - not 
reflected at all in our earnings - is greater than our total 
reported earnings, which include only the $14 million in 
dividends received from these companies.  And, of course, we have 
a number of smaller ownership interests that, in aggregate, had 
substantial additional undistributed earnings.

      We attach real significance to the general magnitude of 
these numbers, but we don’t believe they should be carried to ten 
decimal places.  Realization by Berkshire of such retained 
earnings through improved market valuations is subject to very 
substantial, but indeterminate, taxation.  And while retained 
earnings over the years, and in the aggregate, have translated 
into at least equal market value for shareholders, the 
translation has been both extraordinarily uneven among companies 
and irregular and unpredictable in timing.

     However, this very unevenness and irregularity offers 
advantages to the value-oriented purchaser of fractional portions 
of businesses.  This investor may select from almost the entire 
array of major American corporations, including many far superior 
to virtually any of the businesses that could be bought in their 
entirety in a negotiated deal.  And fractional-interest purchases 
can be made in an auction market where prices are set by 
participants with behavior patterns that sometimes resemble those 
of an army of manic-depressive lemmings.

     Within this gigantic auction arena, it is our job to select 
businesses with economic characteristics allowing each dollar of 
retained earnings to be translated eventually into at least a 
dollar of market value.  Despite a lot of mistakes, we have so 
far achieved this goal.  In doing so, we have been greatly 
assisted by Arthur Okun’s patron saint for economists - St. 
Offset.  In some cases, that is, retained earnings attributable 
to our ownership position have had insignificant or even negative 
impact on market value, while in other major positions a dollar 
retained by an investee corporation has been translated into two 
or more dollars of market value.  To date, our corporate over-
achievers have more than offset the laggards.  If we can continue 
this record, it will validate our efforts to maximize “economic” 
earnings, regardless of the impact upon “accounting” earnings.

     Satisfactory as our partial-ownership approach has been, 
what really makes us dance is the purchase of 100% of good 
businesses at reasonable prices.  We’ve accomplished this feat a 
few times (and expect to do so again), but it is an 
extraordinarily difficult job - far more difficult than the 
purchase at attractive prices of fractional interests.

     As we look at the major acquisitions that others made during 
1982, our reaction is not envy, but relief that we were non-
participants.  For in many of these acquisitions, managerial 
intellect wilted in competition with managerial adrenaline The 
thrill of the chase blinded the pursuers to the consequences of 
the catch.  Pascal’s observation seems apt: “It has struck me 
that all men’s misfortunes spring from the single cause that they 
are unable to stay quietly in one room.”

     (Your Chairman left the room once too often last year and 
almost starred in the Acquisition Follies of 1982.  In 
retrospect, our major accomplishment of the year was that a very 
large purchase to which we had firmly committed was unable to be 
completed for reasons totally beyond our control.  Had it come 
off, this transaction would have consumed extraordinary amounts 
of time and energy, all for a most uncertain payoff.  If we were 
to introduce graphics to this report, illustrating favorable 
business developments of the past year, two blank pages depicting 
this blown deal would be the appropriate centerfold.)

     Our partial-ownership approach can be continued soundly only 
as long as portions of attractive businesses can be acquired at 
attractive prices.  We need a moderately-priced stock market to 
assist us in this endeavor.  The market, like the Lord, helps 
those who help themselves.  But, unlike the Lord, the market does 
not forgive those who know not what they do.  For the investor, a 
too-high purchase price for the stock of an excellent company can 
undo the effects of a subsequent decade of favorable business 
developments.

     Should the stock market advance to considerably higher 
levels, our ability to utilize capital effectively in partial-
ownership positions will be reduced or eliminated.  This will 