Measured by the biblical standard, the Berkshire board is a model: (a) every director is a member
of a family owning at least $4 million of stock; (b) none of these shares were acquired from
Berkshire via options or grants; (c) no directors receive committee, consulting or board fees from
the company that are more than a tiny portion of their annual income; and (d) although we have a
standard corporate indemnity arrangement, we carry no liability insurance for directors.
At Berkshire, board members travel the same road as shareholders.
************
Charlie and I have seen much behavior confirming the Bible’s “treasure” point. In our view,
based on our considerable boardroom experience, the least independent directors are likely to be
those who receive an important fraction of their annual income from the fees they receive for
board service (and who hope as well to be recommended for election to other boards and thereby
to boost their income further). Yet these are the very board members most often classed as
“independent.”
Most directors of this type are decent people and do a first-class job. But they wouldn’t be human
if they weren’t tempted to thwart actions that would threaten their livelihood. Some may go on to
succumb to such temptations.
Let’s look at an example based upon circumstantial evidence. I have first-hand knowledge of a
recent acquisition proposal (not from Berkshire) that was favored by management, blessed by the
company’s investment banker and slated to go forward at a price above the level at which the
stock had sold for some years (or now sells for). In addition, a number of directors favored the
transaction and wanted it proposed to shareholders.

23

Several of their brethren, however, each of whom received board and committee fees totaling
about $100,000 annually, scuttled the proposal, which meant that shareholders never learned of
this multi-billion offer. Non-management directors owned little stock except for shares they had
received from the company. Their open-market purchases in recent years had meanwhile been
nominal, even though the stock had sold far below the acquisition price proposed. In other words,
these directors didn’t want the shareholders to be offered X even though they had consistently
declined the opportunity to buy stock for their own account at a fraction of X.
I don’t know which directors opposed letting shareholders see the offer. But I do know that
$100,000 is an important portion of the annual income of some of those deemed “independent,”
clearly meeting the Matthew 6:21 definition of “treasure.” If the deal had gone through, these fees
would have ended.
Neither the shareholders nor I will ever know what motivated the dissenters. Indeed they
themselves will not likely know, given that self-interest inevitably blurs introspection. We do
know one thing, though: At the same meeting at which the deal was rejected, the board voted itself
a significant increase in directors’ fees.
•

While we are on the subject of self-interest, let’s turn again to the most important accounting
mechanism still available to CEOs who wish to overstate earnings: the non-expensing of stock
options. The accomplices in perpetuating this absurdity have been many members of Congress
who have defied the arguments put forth by all Big Four auditors, all members of the Financial
Accounting Standards Board and virtually all investment professionals.
I’m enclosing an op-ed piece I wrote for The Washington Post describing a truly breathtaking bill
that was passed 312-111 by the House last summer. Thanks to Senator Richard Shelby, the Senate
didn’t ratify the House’s foolishness. And, to his great credit, Bill Donaldson, the investorminded Chairman of the SEC, has stood firm against massive political pressure, generated by the
check-waving CEOs who first muscled Congress in 1993 about the issue of option accounting and
then repeated the tactic last year.
Because the attempts to obfuscate the stock-option issue continue, it’s worth pointing out that no
one – neither the FASB, nor investors generally, nor I – are talking about restricting the use of
options in any way. Indeed, my successor at Berkshire may well receive much of his pay via
options, albeit logically-structured ones in respect to 1) an appropriate strike price, 2) an escalation
in price that reflects the retention of earnings, and 3) a ban on his quickly disposing of any shares
purchased through options. We cheer arrangements that motivate managers, whether these be
cash bonuses or options. And if a company is truly receiving value for the options it issues, we
see no reason why recording their cost should cut down on their use.
The simple fact is that certain CEOs know their own compensation would be far more rationally
determined if options were expensed. They also suspect that their stock would sell at a lower price
if realistic accounting were employed, meaning that they would reap less in the market when they
unloaded their personal holdings. To these CEOs such unpleasant prospects are a fate to be fought
with all the resources they have at hand – even though the funds they use in that fight normally
don’t belong to them, but are instead put up by their shareholders.
Option-expensing is scheduled to become mandatory on June 15th. You can therefore expect
intensified efforts to stall or emasculate this rule between now and then. Let your Congressman
and Senators know what you think on this issue.

24

The Annual Meeting
There are two changes this year concerning the annual meeting. First, we have scheduled the
meeting for the last Saturday in April (the 30th), rather than the usual first Saturday in May. This year
Mother’s Day falls on May 8, and it would be unfair to ask the employees of Borsheim’s and Gorat’s to
take care of us at that special time – so we’ve moved everything up a week. Next year we’ll return to our
regular timing, holding the meeting on May 6, 2006.
Additionally, we are changing the sequence of events on meeting day, April 30. Just as always,
the doors will open at the Qwest Center at 7 a.m. and the movie will be shown at 8:30. At 9:30, however,
we will go directly to the question and answer period, which (allowing for lunch at the Qwest’s stands) will
last until 3:00. Then, after a short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:15.
We have made this change because a number of shareholders complained last year about the time
consumed by two speakers who advocated proposals of limited interest to the majority of the audience –
and who were no doubt relishing their chance to talk to a captive group of about 19,500. With our new
procedure, those shareholders who wish to hear it all can stick around for the formal meeting and those who
don’t can leave – or better yet shop.
There will be plenty of opportunity for that pastime in the vast exhibition hall that adjoins the
meeting area. Kelly Muchemore, the Flo Ziegfeld of Berkshire, put on a magnificent shopping
extravaganza last year, and she says that was just a warm-up for this year. (Kelly, I am delighted to report,
is getting married in October. I’m giving her away and suggested that she make a little history by holding
the wedding at the annual meeting. She balked, however, when Charlie insisted that he be the ringbearer.)
Again we will showcase a 2,100 square foot Clayton home (featuring Acme brick, Shaw carpet,
Johns Manville insulation, MiTek fasteners, Carefree awnings and NFM furniture). Take a tour through
the home. Better yet, buy it.
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 45 of the 50 jurisdictions in
which we operate. Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save you
money.
On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets®
available for your inspection. Stop by the NetJets booth at the Qwest to learn about viewing these planes.
Come to Omaha by bus; leave in your new plane.
The Bookworm shop did a terrific business last year selling Berkshire-related books. Displaying
18 titles, they sold 2,920 copies for $61,000. Since we charge the shop no rent (I must be getting soft), it
gives shareholders a 20% discount. This year I’ve asked The Bookworm to add Graham Allison’s Nuclear
Terrorism: The Ultimate Preventable Catastrophe, a must-read for those concerned with the safety of our
country. In addition, the shop will premiere Poor Charlie’s Almanack, a book compiled by Peter Kaufman.
Scholars have for too long debated whether Charlie is the reincarnation of Ben Franklin. This book should
settle the question.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain
the credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car