Common Stock and a new Class B Common Stock will be authorized.

     Each share of the &quot;B&quot; will have the rights of 1/30th of an &quot;A&quot; share with these exceptions:  First,
a B share will have 1/200th of the vote of an A share (rather than 1/30th of the vote).  Second, the
B will not be eligible to participate in Berkshire's shareholder-designated charitable contributions program.

     When the recapitalization is complete, each share of A will become convertible, at the holder's
option and at any time, into 30 shares of B.  This conversion privilege will not extend in the opposite
direction.  That is, holders of B shares will not be able to convert them into A shares.

     We expect to list the B shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where they will trade alongside
the A stock.  To create the shareholder base necessary for a listing   and to ensure a liquid market
in the B stock   Berkshire expects to make a public offering for cash of at least $100 million of new
B shares.  The offering will be made only by means of a prospectus.

     The market will ultimately determine the price of the B shares.  Their price, though, should be in
the neighborhood of 1/30th of the price of the A shares.

     Class A shareholders who wish to give gifts may find it convenient to convert a share or two of
their stock into Class B shares.  Additionally, arbitrage-related conversions will occur if demand for the
B is strong enough to push its price to slightly above 1/30th of the price of A.

     However, because the Class A stock will entitle its holders to full voting rights and access to
Berkshire's contributions program, these shares will be superior to the Class B shares and we would
expect most shareholders to remain holders of the Class A   which is precisely what the Buffett and
Munger families plan to do, except in those instances when we ourselves might convert a few shares
to facilitate gifts.  The prospect that most shareholders will stick to the A stock suggests that it will enjoy
a somewhat more liquid market than the B.

     There are tradeoffs for Berkshire in this recapitalization.  But they do not arise from the proceeds
of the offering   we will find constructive uses for the money   nor in any degree from the price at
which we will sell the B shares.  As I write this   with Berkshire stock at $36,000   Charlie and I do
not believe it undervalued.  Therefore, the offering we propose will not diminish the per-share intrinsic
value of our existing stock.  Let me also put our thoughts about valuation more baldly:  Berkshire is
selling at a price at which Charlie and I would not consider buying it.

     What Berkshire will incur by way of the B stock are certain added costs, including those involving
the mechanics of handling a larger number of shareholders.  On the other hand, the stock should be
a convenience for people wishing to make gifts.  And those of you who have hoped for a split have
gained a do-it-yourself method of bringing one about.

     We are making this move, though, for other reasons   having to do with the appearance of
expense-laden unit trusts purporting to be low-priced &quot;clones&quot; of Berkshire and sure to be aggressively
marketed.  The idea behind these vehicles is not new:  In recent years, a number of people have told
me about their wish to create an &quot;all-Berkshire&quot; investment fund to be sold at a low dollar price.  But
until recently, the promoters of these investments heard out my objections and backed off.

     I did not discourage these people because I prefer large investors over small.  Were it possible,
Charlie and I would love to turn $1,000 into $3,000 for multitudes of people who would find that gain
an important answer to their immediate problems.

     In order to quickly triple small stakes, however, we would have to just as quickly turn our present
market capitalization of $43 billion into $129 billion (roughly the market cap of General Electric, America's
most highly valued company).  We can't come close to doing that. The very best we hope for is   on
average   to double Berkshire's per-share intrinsic value every five years, and we may well fall far short
of that goal.

     In the end, Charlie and I do not care whether our shareholders own Berkshire in large or small
amounts.  What we wish for are shareholders of any size who are knowledgeable about our operations,
share our objectives and long-term perspective, and are aware of our limitations, most particularly those
imposed by our large capital base.

     The unit trusts that have recently surfaced fly in the face of these goals.  They would be sold by
brokers working for big commissions, would impose other burdensome costs on their shareholders, and
would be marketed en masse to unsophisticated buyers, apt to be seduced by our past record and
beguiled by the publicity Berkshire and I have received in recent years.  The sure outcome:  a multitude
of investors destined to be disappointed.

     Through our creation of the B stock   a low-denomination product far superior to Berkshire-only
trusts we hope to make the clones unmerchandisable.

     But both present and prospective Berkshire shareholders should pay special attention to one point: 
Though the per-share intrinsic value of our stock has grown at an excellent rate during the past five
years, its market price has grown still faster.  The stock, in other words, has outperformed the business.

     That kind of market overperformance cannot persist indefinitely, neither for Berkshire nor any other
stock.  Inevitably, there will be periods of underperformance as well.  The price volatility that results,
though endemic to public markets, is not to our liking.  What we would prefer instead is to have the
market price of Berkshire precisely track its intrinsic value.  Were the stock to do that, every shareholder
would benefit during his period of ownership in exact proportion to the progress Berkshire itself made
in the period.

     Obviously, the market behavior of Berkshire's stock will never conform to this ideal.  But we will
come closer to this goal than we would otherwise if our present and prospective shareholders are
informed, business-oriented and not exposed to high-commission salesmanship when making their
investment decisions.  To that end, we are better off if we can blunt the merchandising efforts of the
unit trusts   and that is the reason we are creating the B stock.

     We look forward to answering your questions about the recapitalization at the Annual Meeting.

Miscellaneous

     Berkshire isn't the only American corporation utilizing the new, exciting ABWA strategy.  At about
1:15 p.m. on July 14, 1995, Michael Eisner, CEO of The Walt Disney Company, was walking up
Wildflower Lane in Sun Valley.  At the same time, I was leaving a lunch at Herbert Allen's home on that
street to meet Tom Murphy, CEO of Cap Cities/ABC, for a golf game.

     That morning, speaking to a large group of executives and money managers assembled by Allen's
investment bank, Michael had made a brilliant presentation about Disney, and upon seeing him, I offered
my congratulations.  We chatted briefly   and the subject of a possible combination of Disney and Cap
Cities came up.  This wasn't the first time a merger had been discussed, but progress had never before
been made, in part because Disney wanted to buy with cash and Cap Cities desired stock.

     Michael and I waited a few minutes for Murph to arrive, and in the short conversation that ensued,
both Michael and Murph indicated they might bend on the stock/cash question.  Within a few weeks, they
both did, at which point a contract was put together in three very busy days.

     The Disney/Cap Cities deal makes so much sense that I'm sure it would have occurred without that
chance encounter in Sun Valley.  But when I ran into Michael that day on Wildflower Lane, he was
heading for his plane, so without that accidental meeting the deal certainly wouldn't have happened in
the time frame it did.  I believe both Disney and Cap Cities will benefit from the fact that we all
serendipitously met that day.

                           * * * * * * * * * * * *

     It's appropriate that I say a few words here about Murph.  To put it simply, he is as fine an
executive as I have ever seen in my long exposure to business.  Equally important, he possesses human
qualities every bit the equal of his managerial qualities.  He's an extraordinary friend, parent, husband
and citizen.  In those rare instances in which Murph's personal interests diverged from those of
shareholders, he unfailingly favored the owners.  When I say that I like to be associated with managers
whom I would love to have as a sibling, in-law, or trustee of my will, Murph is the exemplar of what
I mean.

     If Murph should elect to run another business, don't bother to study its value   just buy the stock. 
And don't later be as dumb as I was two years ago when I sold one-third of our holdings in Cap Cities