before Salomon became involved; and considerably later, after the 
RJR board made its decision in favor of KKR.  Because we could 
not buy at other times, our directorships cost Berkshire 
significant money.

     Considering Berkshire’s good results in 1988, you might 
expect us to pile into arbitrage during 1989.  Instead, we expect 
to be on the sidelines.

     One pleasant reason is that our cash holdings are down - 
because our position in equities that we expect to hold for a 
very long time is substantially up.  As regular readers of this 
report know, our new commitments are not based on a judgment 
about short-term prospects for the stock market.  Rather, they 
reflect an opinion about long-term business prospects for 
specific companies.  We do not have, never have had, and never 
will have an opinion about where the stock market, interest 
rates, or business activity will be a year from now.

     Even if we had a lot of cash we probably would do little in 
arbitrage in 1989.  Some extraordinary excesses have developed in 
the takeover field.  As Dorothy says: “Toto, I have a feeling 
we’re not in Kansas any more.”

     We have no idea how long the excesses will last, nor do we 
know what will change the attitudes of government, lender and 
buyer that fuel them.  But we do know that the less the prudence 
with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence 
with which we should conduct our own affairs.  We have no desire 
to arbitrage transactions that reflect the unbridled - and, in 
our view, often unwarranted - optimism of both buyers and 
lenders.  In our activities, we will heed the wisdom of Herb 
Stein: “If something can’t go on forever, it will end.”
Efficient Market Theory
The preceding discussion about arbitrage makes a small 
discussion of “efficient market theory” (EMT) also seem relevant.  
This doctrine became highly fashionable - indeed, almost holy 
scripture in academic circles during the 1970s.  Essentially, it 
said that analyzing stocks was useless because all public 
information about them was appropriately reflected in their 
prices.  In other words, the market always knew everything.  As a 
corollary, the professors who taught EMT said that someone 
throwing darts at the stock tables could select a stock portfolio 
having prospects just as good as one selected by the brightest, 
most hard-working security analyst.  Amazingly, EMT was embraced 
not only by academics, but by many investment professionals and 
corporate managers as well.  Observing correctly that the market 
was
frequently
efficient, they went on to conclude incorrectly 
that it was
always
efficient.  The difference between these 
propositions is night and day.

     In my opinion, the continuous 63-year arbitrage experience 
of Graham-Newman Corp. Buffett Partnership, and Berkshire 
illustrates just how foolish EMT is. (There’s plenty of other 
evidence, also.) While at Graham-Newman, I made a study of its 
earnings from arbitrage during the entire 1926-1956 lifespan of 
the company.  Unleveraged returns averaged 20% per year.  
Starting in 1956, I applied Ben Graham’s arbitrage principles, 
first at Buffett Partnership and then Berkshire.  Though I’ve not 
made an exact calculation, I have done enough work to know that 
the 1956-1988 returns averaged well over 20%. (Of course, I 
operated in an environment far more favorable than Ben’s; he had 
1929-1932 to contend with.)

     All of the conditions are present that are required for a 
fair test of portfolio performance: (1) the three organizations 
traded hundreds of different securities while building this 63-
year record; (2) the results are not skewed by a few fortunate 
experiences; (3) we did not have to dig for obscure facts or 
develop keen insights about products or managements - we simply 
acted on highly-publicized events; and (4) our arbitrage 
positions were a clearly identified universe - they have not been 
selected by hindsight.

     Over the 63 years, the general market delivered just under a 
10% annual return, including dividends.  That means $1,000 would 
have grown to $405,000 if all income had been reinvested.  A 20% 
rate of return, however, would have produced $97 million.  That 
strikes us as a statistically-significant differential that 
might, conceivably, arouse one’s curiosity.

     Yet proponents of the theory have never seemed interested in 
discordant evidence of this type.  True, they don’t talk quite as 
much about their theory today as they used to.  But no one, to my 
knowledge, has ever said he was wrong, no matter how many 
thousands of students he has sent forth misinstructed.  EMT, 
moreover, continues to be an integral part of the investment 
curriculum at major business schools.  Apparently, a reluctance 
to recant, and thereby to demystify the priesthood, is not 
limited to theologians.

     Naturally the disservice done students and gullible 
investment professionals who have swallowed EMT has been an 
extraordinary service to us and other followers of Graham.  In 
any sort of a contest - financial, mental, or physical - it’s an 
enormous advantage to have opponents who have been taught that 
it’s useless to even try.  From a selfish point of view, 
Grahamites should probably endow chairs to ensure the perpetual 
teaching of EMT.

     All this said, a warning is appropriate.  Arbitrage has 
looked easy recently.  But this is not a form of investing that 
guarantees profits of 20% a year or, for that matter, profits of 
any kind.  As noted, the market is reasonably efficient much of 
the time: For every arbitrage opportunity we seized in that 63-
year period, many more were foregone because they seemed 
properly-priced.

     An investor cannot obtain superior profits from stocks by 
simply committing to a specific investment category or style.  He 
can earn them only by carefully evaluating facts and continuously 
exercising discipline.  Investing in arbitrage situations, per 
se, is no better a strategy than selecting a portfolio by 
throwing darts.
New York Stock Exchange Listing
Berkshire’s shares were listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange on November 29, 1988.  On pages 50-51 we reproduce the 
letter we sent to shareholders concerning the listing.

     Let me clarify one point not dealt with in the letter: 
Though our round lot for trading on the NYSE is ten shares, any 
number of shares from one on up can be bought or sold.

     As the letter explains, our primary goal in listing was to 
reduce transaction costs, and we believe this goal is being 
achieved.  Generally, the spread between the bid and asked price 
on the NYSE has been well below the spread that prevailed in the 
over-the-counter market.

     Henderson Brothers, Inc., the specialist in our shares, is 
the oldest continuing specialist firm on the Exchange; its 
progenitor, William Thomas Henderson, bought his seat for $500 on 
September 8, 1861. (Recently, seats were selling for about 
$625,000.) Among the 54 firms acting as specialists, HBI ranks 
second in number of stocks assigned, with 83.  We were pleased 
when Berkshire was allocated to HBI, and have been delighted with 
the firm’s performance.  Jim Maguire, Chairman of HBI, personally 
manages the trading in Berkshire, and we could not be in better 
hands.

     In two respects our goals probably differ somewhat from 
those of most listed companies.  First, we do not want to 
maximize the price at which Berkshire shares trade.  We wish 
instead for them to trade in a narrow range centered at intrinsic 
business value (which we hope increases at a reasonable - or, 
better yet, unreasonable - rate).  Charlie and I are bothered as 
much by significant overvaluation as significant undervaluation.  
Both extremes will inevitably produce results for many 
shareholders that will differ sharply from Berkshire’s business 
results.  If our stock price instead consistently mirrors 
business value, each of our shareholders will receive an 
investment result that roughly parallels the business results of 
Berkshire during his holding period.

     Second, we wish for very little trading activity.  If we ran 
a private business with a few passive partners, we would be 
disappointed if those partners, and their replacements, 
frequently wanted to leave the partnership.  Running a public 
company, we feel the same way.

     Our goal is to attract long-term owners who, at the time of 
purchase, have no timetable or price target for sale but plan 
instead to stay with us indefinitely.  We don’t understand the 
CEO who wants lots of stock activity, for that can be achieved 
only if many of his owners are constantly exiting.  At what other 
organization - school, club, church, etc. - do leaders cheer when 
members leave? (However, if there were a broker whose livelihood 
depended upon the membership turnover in such organizations, you 
could be sure that there would be at least one proponent of 
activity, as in: “There hasn’t been much going on in Christianity 
for a while; maybe we should switch to Buddhism next week.“)

     Of course, some Berkshire owners will need or want to sell 
from time to time, and we wish for good replacements who will pay 
them a fair price.  Therefore we try, through our policies, 
performance, and communications, to attract new shareholders who 
understand our operations, share our time horizons, and measure 
us as we measure ourselves.  If we can continue to attract this 