Saturday, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Sunday. On Saturday this year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., NFM is having a
Berkyville BBQ to which you are all invited.
At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholder-only events. The first will be a cocktail reception
from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday, April 30th. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, May 2nd, from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m.
We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, therefore,
shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 26th through Saturday, May 8th. During that period,
please identify yourself as a shareholder by presenting your meeting credentials or a brokerage statement that
shows you are a Berkshire holder. Enter with rhinestones; leave with diamonds. My daughter tells me that the
more you buy, the more you save (kids say the darnedest things).
On Sunday, in the mall outside of Borsheims, a blindfolded Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion,
will take on all comers – who will have their eyes wide open – in groups of six. Nearby, Norman Beck, a
remarkable magician from Dallas, will bewilder onlookers.
Our special treat for shareholders this year will be the return of my friend, Ariel Hsing, the country’s
top-ranked junior table tennis player (and a good bet to win at the Olympics some day). Now 14, Ariel came to
the annual meeting four years ago and demolished all comers, including me. (You can witness my humiliating
defeat on YouTube; just type in Ariel Hsing Berkshire.)
Naturally, I’ve been plotting a comeback and will take her on outside of Borsheims at 1:00 p.m. on
Sunday. It will be a three-point match, and after I soften her up, all shareholders are invited to try their luck at
similar three-point contests. Winners will be given a box of See’s candy. We will have equipment available, but
bring your own paddle if you think it will help. (It won’t.)
Gorat’s will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 2nd, and will be
serving from 1 p.m. until 10 p.m. Last year, though, it was overwhelmed by demand. With many more diners
expected this year, I’ve asked my friend, Donna Sheehan, at Piccolo’s – another favorite restaurant of mine – to
serve shareholders on Sunday as well. (Piccolo’s giant root beer float is mandatory for any fan of fine dining.) I
plan to eat at both restaurants: All of the weekend action makes me really hungry, and I have favorite dishes at
each spot. Remember: To make a reservation at Gorat’s, call 402-551-3733 on April 1st (but not before) and at
Piccolo’s call 402-342-9038.
Regrettably, we will not be able to have a reception for international visitors this year. Our count grew
to about 800 last year, and my simply signing one item per person took about 2 1⁄ 2 hours. Since we expect even
more international visitors this year, Charlie and I decided we must drop this function. But be assured, we
welcome every international visitor who comes.
Last year we changed our method of determining what questions would be asked at the meeting and
received many dozens of letters applauding the new arrangement. We will therefore again have the same three
financial journalists lead the question-and-answer period, asking Charlie and me questions that shareholders have
submitted to them by e-mail.

19

The journalists and their e-mail addresses are: Carol Loomis, of Fortune, who may be e-mailed at
cloomis@fortunemail.com; Becky Quick, of CNBC, at BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com, and Andrew Ross
Sorkin, of The New York Times, at arsorkin@nytimes.com. From the questions submitted, each journalist will
choose the dozen or so he or she decides are the most interesting and important. The journalists have told me
your question has the best chance of being selected if you keep it concise and include no more than two questions
in any e-mail you send them. (In your e-mail, let the journalist know if you would like your name mentioned if
your question is selected.)
Neither Charlie nor I will get so much as a clue about the questions to be asked. We know the
journalists will pick some tough ones and that’s the way we like it.
We will again have a drawing at 8:15 on Saturday at each of 13 microphones for those shareholders
wishing to ask questions themselves. At the meeting, I will alternate the questions asked by the journalists with
those from the winning shareholders. We’ve added 30 minutes to the question time and will probably have time
for about 30 questions from each group.
***********
At 86 and 79, Charlie and I remain lucky beyond our dreams. We were born in America; had terrific
parents who saw that we got good educations; have enjoyed wonderful families and great health; and came
equipped with a “business” gene that allows us to prosper in a manner hugely disproportionate to that
experienced by many people who contribute as much or more to our society’s well-being. Moreover, we have
long had jobs that we love, in which we are helped in countless ways by talented and cheerful associates. Indeed,
over the years, our work has become ever more fascinating; no wonder we tap-dance to work. If pushed, we
would gladly pay substantial sums to have our jobs (but don’t tell the Comp Committee).
Nothing, however, is more fun for us than getting together with our shareholder-partners at Berkshire’s
annual meeting. So join us on May 1st at the Qwest for our annual Woodstock for Capitalists. We’ll see you
there.
February 26, 2010
