# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1997

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

1997 Chairman's Letter

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

Our gain in net worth during 1997
was $8.0 billion, which increased the per-share book value of both our
Class A and Class B stock by 34.1%. Over the last 33 years (that is, since
present management took over) per-share book value has grown from $19 to
$25,488, a rate of 24.1% compounded annually. (1)

Given our gain of 34.1%, it is
tempting to declare victory and move on. But last year's performance was
no great triumph: Any investor can chalk up large returns when stocks
soar, as they did in 1997. In a bull market, one must avoid the error of
the preening duck that quacks boastfully after a torrential rainstorm,
thinking that its paddling skills have caused it to rise in the world.
A right-thinking duck would instead compare its position after the downpour
to that of the other ducks on the pond.

So what's our duck rating for 1997?
The table on the facing page shows that though we paddled furiously last
year, passive ducks that simply invested in the S&P Index rose almost
as fast as we did. Our appraisal of 1997's performance, then: Quack .

When the market booms, we tend
to suffer in comparison with the S&P Index. The Index bears no tax
costs, nor do mutual funds, since they pass through all tax liabilities
to their owners. Last year, on the other hand, Berkshire paid or accrued
$4.2 billion for federal income tax, or about 18% of our beginning net
worth.

Berkshire will always have corporate
taxes to pay, which means it needs to overcome their drag in order to justify
its existence. Obviously, Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and
my partner, and I won't be able to lick that handicap every year. But we
expect over time to maintain a modest advantage over the Index, and that
is the yardstick against which you should measure us. We will not ask you
to adopt the philosophy of the Chicago Cubs fan who reacted to a string
of lackluster seasons by saying, "Why get upset? Everyone has a bad
century now and then."

Gains in book value are, of course,
not the bottom line at Berkshire. What truly counts are gains in per-share
intrinsic business value. Ordinarily, though, the two measures tend to
move roughly in tandem, and in 1997 that was the case: Led by a blow-out
performance at GEICO, Berkshire's intrinsic value (which far exceeds book
value) grew at nearly the same pace as book value.

For more explanation of the term,
intrinsic value, you may wish to refer to our Owner's Manual, reprinted
on pages 62 to 71. This manual sets forth our owner-related business principles,
information that is important to all of Berkshire's shareholders.

In our last two annual reports,
we furnished you a table that Charlie and I believe is central to estimating
Berkshire's intrinsic value. In the updated version of that table, which
follows, we trace our two key components of value. The first column lists
our per-share ownership of investments (including cash and equivalents)
and the second column shows our per-share earnings from Berkshire's operating
businesses before taxes and purchase-accounting adjustments (discussed
on pages 69 and 70), but after all interest and corporate expenses. The
second column excludes all dividends, interest and capital gains that we
realized from the investments presented in the first column. In effect,
the columns show what Berkshire would look like were it split into two
parts, with one entity holding our investments and the other operating
all of our businesses and bearing all corporate costs.

Pundits who ignore what our 38,000
employees contribute to the company, and instead simply view Berkshire
as a de facto investment company, should study the figures in the second
column. We made our first business acquisition in 1967, and since then
our pre-tax operating earnings have grown from $1 million to $888 million.
Furthermore, as noted, in this exercise we have assigned all of Berkshire's
corporate expenses -- overhead of $6.6 million, interest of $66.9 million
and shareholder contributions of $15.4 million -- to our business operations,
even though a portion of these could just as well have been assigned to
the investment side.

Here are the growth rates of the
two segments by decade:

During 1997, both parts of our
business grew at a satisfactory rate, with investments increasing by $9,543
per share, or 33.5%, and operating earnings growing by $296.43 per share,
or 70.3%. One important caveat: Because we were lucky in our super-cat
insurance business (to be discussed later) and because GEICO's underwriting
gain was well above what we can expect in most years, our 1997 operating
earnings were much better than we anticipated and also more than we expect
for 1998.

Our rate of progress in both investments
and operations is certain to fall in the future. For anyone deploying
capital, nothing recedes like success. My own history makes the point:
Back in 1951, when I was attending Ben Graham's class at Columbia, an idea
giving me a $10,000 gain improved my investment performance for the year
by a full 100 percentage points. Today, an idea producing a $500 million
pre-tax profit for Berkshire adds one percentage point to our performance.
It's no wonder that my annual results in the 1950s were better by nearly
thirty percentage points than my annual gains in any subsequent decade.
Charlie's experience was similar. We weren't smarter then, just smaller.
At our present size, any performance superiority we achieve will be minor.

We will be helped, however, by
the fact that the businesses to which we have already allocated capital
-- both operating subsidiaries and companies in which we are passive investors
-- have splendid long-term prospects. We are also blessed with a managerial
corps that is unsurpassed in ability and focus. Most of these executives
are wealthy and do not need the pay they receive from Berkshire to maintain
their way of life. They are motivated by the joy of accomplishment, not
by fame or fortune.

Though we are delighted with what
we own, we are not pleased with our prospects for committing incoming funds.
Prices are high for both businesses and stocks. That does not mean that
the prices of either will fall -- we have absolutely no view on that matter
-- but it does mean that we get relatively little in prospective earnings
when we commit fresh money.

Under these circumstances, we try
to exert a Ted Williams kind of discipline. In his book The Science
of Hitting , Ted explains that he carved the strike zone into 77 cells,
each the size of a baseball. Swinging only at balls in his "best"
cell, he knew, would allow him to bat .400; reaching for balls in his "worst"
spot, the low outside corner of the strike zone, would reduce him to .230.
In other words, waiting for the fat pitch would mean a trip to the Hall
of Fame; swinging indiscriminately would mean a ticket to the minors.

If they are in the strike zone
at all, the business "pitches" we now see are just catching the
lower outside corner. If we swing, we will be locked into low returns.
But if we let all of today's balls go by, there can be no assurance that
the next ones we see will be more to our liking. Perhaps the attractive
prices of the past were the aberrations, not the full prices of today.
Unlike Ted, we can't be called out if we resist three pitches that are
barely in the strike zone; nevertheless, just standing there, day after
day, with my bat on my shoulder is not my idea of fun.

Unconventional Commitments

When we can't find our favorite
commitment -- a well-run and sensibly-priced business with fine economics
-- we usually opt to put new money into very short-term instruments of
the highest quality. Sometimes, however, we venture elsewhere. Obviously
we believe that the alternative commitments we make are more likely to
result in profit than loss. But we also realize that they do not offer
the certainty of profit that exists in a wonderful business secured at
an attractive price. Finding that kind of opportunity, we know that
we are going to make money -- the only question being when. With alternative
investments, we think that we are going to make money. But we also
recognize that we will sometimes realize losses, occasionally of substantial
size.

We had three non-traditional positions
at yearend. The first was derivative contracts for 14.0 million barrels
of oil, that being what was then left of a 45.7 million barrel position
we established in 1994-95. Contracts for 31.7 million barrels were settled
in 1995-97, and these supplied us with a pre-tax gain of about $61.9 million.
Our remaining contracts expire during 1998 and 1999. In these, we had an
unrealized gain of $11.6 million at yearend. Accounting rules require that