from giving advice or effecting transactions. The resulting frictional costs can be huge and, for investors in
aggregate, devoid of benefit. So ignore the chatter, keep your costs minimal, and invest in stocks as you would in a
farm.
My money, I should add, is where my mouth is: What I advise here is essentially identical to certain
instructions I’ve laid out in my will. One bequest provides that cash will be delivered to a trustee for my wife’s
benefit. (I have to use cash for individual bequests, because all of my Berkshire shares will be fully distributed to
certain philanthropic organizations over the ten years following the closing of my estate.) My advice to the trustee
could not be more simple: Put 10% of the cash in short-term government bonds and 90% in a very low-cost S&P
500 index fund. (I suggest Vanguard’s.) I believe the trust’s long-term results from this policy will be superior to
those attained by most investors – whether pension funds, institutions or individuals – who employ high-fee
managers.
************
And now back to Ben Graham. I learned most of the thoughts in this investment discussion from Ben’s
book The Intelligent Investor, which I bought in 1949. My financial life changed with that purchase.
Before reading Ben’s book, I had wandered around the investing landscape, devouring everything written
on the subject. Much of what I read fascinated me: I tried my hand at charting and at using market indicia to predict
stock movements. I sat in brokerage offices watching the tape roll by, and I listened to commentators. All of this
was fun, but I couldn’t shake the feeling that I wasn’t getting anywhere.
In contrast, Ben’s ideas were explained logically in elegant, easy-to-understand prose (without Greek
letters or complicated formulas). For me, the key points were laid out in what later editions labeled Chapters 8 and
20. (The original 1949 edition numbered its chapters differently.) These points guide my investing decisions today.

20

A couple of interesting sidelights about the book: Later editions included a postscript describing an
unnamed investment that was a bonanza for Ben. Ben made the purchase in 1948 when he was writing the first
edition and – brace yourself – the mystery company was GEICO. If Ben had not recognized the special qualities of
GEICO when it was still in its infancy, my future and Berkshire’s would have been far different.
The 1949 edition of the book also recommended a railroad stock that was then selling for $17 and earning
about $10 per share. (One of the reasons I admired Ben was that he had the guts to use current examples, leaving
himself open to sneers if he stumbled.) In part, that low valuation resulted from an accounting rule of the time that
required the railroad to exclude from its reported earnings the substantial retained earnings of affiliates.
The recommended stock was Northern Pacific, and its most important affiliate was Chicago, Burlington
and Quincy. These railroads are now important parts of BNSF (Burlington Northern Santa Fe), which is today fully
owned by Berkshire. When I read the book, Northern Pacific had a market value of about $40 million. Now its
successor (having added a great many properties, to be sure) earns that amount every four days.
I can’t remember what I paid for that first copy of The Intelligent Investor. Whatever the cost, it would
underscore the truth of Ben’s adage: Price is what you pay, value is what you get. Of all the investments I ever
made, buying Ben’s book was the best (except for my purchase of two marriage licenses).
************
Local and state financial problems are accelerating, in large part because public entities promised pensions
they couldn’t afford. Citizens and public officials typically under-appreciated the gigantic financial tapeworm that
was born when promises were made that conflicted with a willingness to fund them. Unfortunately, pension
mathematics today remain a mystery to most Americans.
Investment policies, as well, play an important role in these problems. In 1975, I wrote a memo to
Katharine Graham, then chairman of The Washington Post Company, about the pitfalls of pension promises and the
importance of investment policy. That memo is reproduced on pages 118 - 136.
During the next decade, you will read a lot of news – bad news – about public pension plans. I hope my
memo is helpful to you in understanding the necessity for prompt remedial action where problems exist.
The Annual Meeting
The annual meeting will be held on Saturday, May 3rd at the CenturyLink Center. Carrie Sova, our talented
ringmaster, will be in charge, and all of our headquarters group will pitch in to help her. Our gang both does a
better job than professional event planners would and – yes – saves us money.
CenturyLink’s doors will open at 7 a.m., and at 7:30 we will have our third International Newspaper
Tossing Challenge. Our target will be a Clayton Home porch, precisely 35 feet from the throwing line. I tossed
about 500,000 papers when I was a teenager, so I think I’m pretty good. Challenge me: I’ll buy a Dilly Bar for
anyone who lands his or her throw closer to the doorstep than I do. The papers will be 36 to 42 pages, and you must
fold them yourself (no rubber bands allowed).
At 8:30, a new Berkshire movie will be shown. An hour later, we will start the question-and-answer
period, which (with a break for lunch at CenturyLink’s stands) will last until 3:30. After a short recess, Charlie and
I will convene the annual meeting at 3:45. If you decide to leave during the day’s question periods, please do so
while Charlie is talking.

21

The best reason to exit, of course, is to shop. We’ll assist you by filling the 194,300-square-foot hall that
adjoins the meeting area with products from dozens of Berkshire subsidiaries. Last year, you did your part, and
most locations racked up record sales. In a nine-hour period, we sold 1,062 pairs of Justin boots (that’s a pair every
32 seconds), 12,792 pounds of See’s candy, 11,162 Quikut knives (21 knives per minute) and 6,344 pairs of Wells
Lamont gloves, always a hot item. This year, Charlie and I will have competing ketchup bottles for sale. Naturally,
the one with Charlie’s picture will be heavily discounted. But, if you help, my bottle will outsell his. This is
important, so don’t let me down.
Brooks, our running-shoe company, will again have a special commemorative shoe to offer at the meeting.
After you purchase a pair, wear them the next day at our second annual “Berkshire 5K,” an 8 a.m. race starting at
the CenturyLink. Full details for participating will be included in the Visitor’s Guide that you will receive with
your tickets for the meeting. Entrants will find themselves running alongside many of Berkshire’s managers,
directors and associates.
GEICO will have a booth in the shopping area, staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the
country. Stop by for a quote. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a shareholder discount (usually 8%).
This special offer is permitted by 44 of the 51 jurisdictions in which we operate. (One supplemental point: The
discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as that given certain groups.) Bring the details of your
existing insurance and check out whether we can save you money. For at least half of you, I believe we can.
Be sure to visit the Bookworm. It will carry about 35 books and DVDs, among them a couple of new
titles. One is Max Olson’s compilation of Berkshire letters going back to 1965. The book includes an index that I
find particularly useful, specifying page numbers for individuals, companies and subject matter. I also recommend
Forty Chances by my son, Howard. You’ll enjoy it.
If you are a big spender – or aspire to become one – visit Signature Flight Support on the east side of the
Omaha airport between noon and 5 p.m. on Saturday. There, we will have a fleet of NetJets aircraft sure to set your
pulse racing. Come by bus; leave by private jet. Live a little.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. Airlines have sometimes jacked up prices
for the Berkshire weekend. If you are coming from far away, compare the cost of flying to Kansas City versus
Omaha. The drive between the two cities is about 2 1⁄ 2 hours, and it may be that Kansas City can save you
significant money, particularly if you had planned to rent a car in Omaha. Spend the savings with us.
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we will
again be having “Berkshire Weekend” discount pricing. Last year in the week surrounding the meeting, the store