some 16 years ago.  In 1987, volume hit a new high at slightly 
Under 25 million pounds.  For the second year in a row, moreover, 
same-store sales, measured in pounds, were virtually unchanged.  
In case you are wondering, that represents improvement: In each 
of the previous six years, same-store sales had fallen. 

     Although we had a particularly strong 1986 Christmas season, 
we racked up better store-for-store comparisons in the 1987 
Christmas season than at any other time of the year.  Thus, the 
seasonal factor at See's becomes even more extreme.  In 1987, 
about 85% of our profit was earned during December. 

     Candy stores are fun to visit, but most have not been fun 
for their owners.  From what we can learn, practically no one 
besides See's has made significant profits in recent years from 
the operation of candy shops.  Clearly, Chuck's record at See's 
is not due to a rising industry tide.  Rather, it is a one-of-a-
kind performance. 
 
     His achievement requires an excellent product - which we 
have - but it also requires genuine affection for the customer.  
Chuck is 100% customer-oriented, and his attitude sets the tone 
for the rest of the See's organization. 

     Here's an example of Chuck in action: At See's we regularly 
add new pieces of candy to our mix and also cull a few to keep 
our product line at about 100 varieties.  Last spring we selected 
14 items for elimination.  Two, it turned out, were badly missed 
by our customers, who wasted no time in letting us know what they 
thought of our judgment: "A pox on all in See's who participated 
in the abominable decision...;" "May your new truffles melt in 
transit, may they sour in people's mouths, may your costs go up 
and your profits go down...;" "We are investigating the 
possibility of obtaining a mandatory injunction requiring you to 
supply...;" You get the picture.  In all, we received many hundreds of 
letters. 

     Chuck not only reintroduced the pieces, he turned this 
miscue into an opportunity.  Each person who had written got a 
complete and honest explanation in return.  Said Chuck's letter: 
"Fortunately, when I make poor decisions, good things often 
happen as a result...;" And with the letter went a special gift 
certificate. 

     See's increased prices only slightly in the last two years.  
In 1988 we have raised prices somewhat more, though still 
moderately.  To date, sales have been weak and it may be 
difficult for See's to improve its earnings this year.
o
World Book, Kirby, and the Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group 
are all under the management of Ralph Schey.  And what a lucky 
thing for us that they are.  I told you last year that Scott 
Fetzer performance in 1986 had far exceeded the expectations that 
Charlie and I had at the time of our purchase.  Results in 1987 
were even better.  Pre-tax earnings rose 10% while average 
capital employed declined significantly.     

     Ralph's mastery of the 19 businesses for which he is 
responsible is truly amazing, and he has also attracted some 
outstanding managers to run them.  We would love to find a few 
additional units that could be put under Ralph's wing. 

     The businesses of Scott Fetzer are too numerous to describe 
in detail.  Let's just update you on one of our favorites: At the 
end of 1987, World Book introduced its most dramatically-revised 
edition since 1962.  The number of color photos was increased 
from 14,000 to 24,000; over 6,000 articles were revised; 840 new 
contributors were added.  Charlie and I recommend this product to 
you and your family, as we do World Book's products for younger 
children, Childcraft and Early World of Learning. 

     In 1987, World Book unit sales in the United States 
increased for the fifth consecutive year.  International sales 
and profits also grew substantially.  The outlook is good for 
Scott Fetzer operations in aggregate, and for World Book in 
particular.
Insurance Operations
Shown below is an updated version of our usual table 
presenting key figures for the insurance industry:
Statutory
          Yearly Change    Combined Ratio    Yearly Change   Inflation Rate 
           in Premiums   After Policyholder   in Incurred     Measured by 
           Written (%)        Dividends        Losses (%)   GNP Deflator (%)
-------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------
1981 .....     3.8              106.0             6.5              9.6 
1982 .....     4.4              109.8             8.4              6.4 
1983 .....     4.6              112.0             6.8              3.8 
1984 .....     9.2              117.9            16.9              3.7 
1985 .....    22.1              116.3            16.1              3.2 
1986 (Rev.)   22.2              108.0            13.5              2.6 
1987 (Est.)    8.7              104.7             6.8              3.0 
 
Source:  Best's Insurance Management Reports 
 
 
     The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: A 
ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
100 indicates a loss.  When the investment income that an insurer 
earns from holding on to policyholders' funds ("the float") is 
taken into account, a combined ratio in the 107-111 range 
typically produces an overall break-even result, exclusive of 
earnings on the funds provided by shareholders. 

     The math of the insurance business, encapsulated by the 
table, is not very complicated.  In years when the industry's 
annual gain in revenues (premiums) pokes along at 4% or 5%, 
underwriting losses are sure to mount.  That is not because auto 
accidents, fires, windstorms and the like are occurring more 
frequently, nor has it lately been the fault of general 
inflation.  Today, social and judicial inflation are the major 
culprits; the cost of entering a courtroom has simply ballooned.  
Part of the jump in cost arises from skyrocketing verdicts, and 
part from the tendency of judges and juries to expand the 
coverage of insurance policies beyond that contemplated by the 
insurer when the policies were written.  Seeing no let-up in 
either trend, we continue to believe that the industry's revenues 
must grow at about 10% annually for it to just hold its own in 
terms of profitability, even though general inflation may be 
running at a considerably lower rate. 

     The strong revenue gains of 1985-87 almost guaranteed the 
industry an excellent underwriting performance in 1987 and, 
indeed, it was a banner year.  But the news soured as the 
quarters rolled by:  Best's estimates that year-over-year volume 
increases were 12.9%, 11.1%, 5.7%, and 5.6%. In 1988, the
revenue gain is certain to be far below our 10% "equilibrium" 
figure.  Clearly, the party is over. 

     However, earnings will not immediately sink.  A lag factor 
exists in this industry: Because most policies are written for a 
one-year term, higher or lower insurance prices do not have their 
full impact on earnings until many months after they go into 
effect.  Thus, to resume our metaphor, when the party ends and 
the bar is closed, you are allowed to finish your drink.  If 
results are not hurt by a major natural catastrophe, we predict a 
small climb for the industry's combined ratio in 1988, followed 
by several years of larger increases. 

     The insurance industry is cursed with a set of dismal 
economic characteristics that make for a poor long-term outlook: 
hundreds of competitors, ease of entry, and a product that cannot 
be differentiated in any meaningful way.  In such a commodity-
like business, only a very low-cost operator or someone operating 
in a protected, and usually small, niche can sustain high 
profitability levels. 

     When shortages exist, however, even commodity businesses 
flourish.  The insurance industry enjoyed that kind of climate 
for a while but it is now gone.  One of the ironies of capitalism 
is that most managers in commodity industries abhor shortage 
conditions - even though those are the only circumstances 
permitting them good returns.  Whenever shortages appear, the 
typical manager simply can't wait to expand capacity and thereby 
plug the hole through which money is showering upon him.  This is 
precisely what insurance managers did in 1985-87, confirming 
again Disraeli's observation: "What we learn from history is that 
we do not learn from history." 

     At Berkshire, we work to escape the industry's commodity 
economics in two ways. First, we differentiate our product by our 
financial strength, which exceeds that of all others in the 
industry.  This strength, however, is limited in its usefulness. 
It means nothing in the personal insurance field:  The buyer of 
an auto or homeowners policy is going to get his claim paid even 
if his insurer fails (as many have).  It often means nothing in 
the commercial insurance arena: When times are good, many major 
corporate purchasers of insurance and their brokers pay scant 
attention to the insurer's ability to perform under the more 
adverse conditions that may exist, say, five years later when a 
complicated claim is finally resolved. (Out of sight, out of mind 
- and, later on, maybe out-of-pocket.) 

     Periodically, however, buyers remember Ben Franklin's 
observation that it is hard for an empty sack to stand upright 
and recognize their need to buy promises only from insurers that 
have enduring financial strength.  It is then that we have a 
major competitive advantage.  When a buyer really focuses on 
whether a $10 million claim can be easily paid by his insurer 
five or ten years down the road, and when he takes into account 