meeting, as we expect a large crowd.  Those of you who like to be 
downtown (about six miles from the Centre) may wish to stay at the 
Radisson Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) but nice hotel or at the 
much larger Red Lion Hotel a few blocks away.  In the vicinity of 
the Centre are the Holiday Inn (403 rooms), Homewood Suites (118 
rooms) and Hampton Inn (136 rooms).  Another recommended spot is 
the Marriott, whose west Omaha location is about 100 yards from 
Borsheim's and a ten-minute drive from the Centre.  There will be 
buses at the Marriott that will leave at 8:45 and 9:00 for the 
meeting and return after it ends.

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can 
obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting.  A 
good-sized parking area is available at the Centre, while those who 
stay at the Holiday Inn, Homewood Suites and Hampton Inn will be 
able to walk to the meeting.

     As usual, we will have buses to take you to the Nebraska 
Furniture Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and to take you 
from there to hotels or the airport later.  I hope you make a 
special effort to visit the Nebraska Furniture Mart because it has 
opened the Mega Mart, a true retailing marvel that sells 
electronics, appliances, computers, CD's, cameras and audio 
equipment.  Sales have been sensational since the opening, and you 
will be amazed by both the variety of products available and their 
display on the floor.

     The Mega Mart, adjacent to NFM's main store, is on our 64-acre 
site about two miles north of the Centre.  The stores are open from 
10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays and 
noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays.  When you're there be sure to say hello 
to Mrs. B, who, at 101, will be hard at work in our Mrs. B's 
Warehouse.  She never misses a day at the store - or, for that 
matter, an hour.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open for 
shareholders and their guests from noon to 6 p.m. on Sunday.  This 
is always a special day, and we will try to have a few surprises.  
Usually this is the biggest sales day of the year, so for more 
reasons than one Charlie and I hope to see you there.

     On Saturday evening, April 29, there will be a baseball game 
at Rosenblatt Stadium between the Omaha Royals and the Buffalo 
Bisons.  The Buffalo team is owned by my friends, Mindy and Bob 
Rich, Jr., and I'm hoping they will attend.  If so, I will try to 
entice Bob into a one-pitch duel on the mound.  Bob is a 
capitalist's Randy Johnson - young, strong and athletic - and not 
the sort of fellow you want to face early in the season.  So I will 
need plenty of vocal support.

     The proxy statement will include information about obtaining 
tickets to the game.  About 1,400 shareholders attended the event 
last year.  Opening the game that night, I had my stuff and threw a 
strike that the scoreboard reported at eight miles per hour.  What 
many fans missed was that I shook off the catcher's call for my 
fast ball and instead delivered my change-up.  This year it will be 
all smoke.  



                                            Warren E. Buffett
March 7, 1995                               Chairman of the Board
