earnings, although I warn you that the figures are necessarily very 
rough. (The dividends paid to us by these investees have been 
included in the operating earnings itemized on page 6, mostly 
under "Insurance Group: Net Investment Income.")

                                                          Berkshire's Share 
                                                           of Undistributed
                                Berkshire's Approximate   Operating Earnings 
Berkshire's Major Investees      Ownership at Yearend       (in millions)
---------------------------     -----------------------   ------------------  

                                    1991       1990         1991      1990
                                   ------     ------      --------  --------
Capital Cities/ABC Inc. ........    18.1%      17.9%       $ 61      $ 85
The Coca-Cola Company ..........     7.0%       7.0%         69        58
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.     3.4%(1)    3.2%(1)      15        10
The Gillette Company ...........    11.0%       ---          23(2)    --- 
GEICO Corp. ....................    48.2%      46.1%         69        76
The Washington Post Company ....    14.6%      14.6%         10        18
Wells Fargo & Company ..........     9.6%       9.7%        (17)       19(3)
                                                          --------  --------
Berkshire's share of 
   undistributed earnings of major investees               $230      $266
Hypothetical tax on these undistributed investee earnings   (30)      (35)
Reported operating earnings of Berkshire                    316       371 
                                                          --------  --------
      Total look-through earnings of Berkshire             $516      $602 
                                                          ========  ========

     (1) Net of minority interest at Wesco
     (2) For the nine months after Berkshire converted its 
         preferred on April 1
     (3) Calculated on average ownership for the year

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     We also believe that investors can benefit by focusing on 
their own look-through earnings. To calculate these, they should 
determine the underlying earnings attributable to the shares they 
hold in their portfolio and total these. The goal of each investor 
should be to create a portfolio (in effect, a "company") that will 
deliver him or her the highest possible look-through earnings a 
decade or so from now.  

     An approach of this kind will force the investor to think 
about long-term business prospects rather than short-term stock 
market prospects, a perspective likely to improve results. It's 
true, of course, that, in the long run, the scoreboard for 
investment decisions is market price. But prices will be determined 
by future earnings. In investing, just as in baseball, to put runs 
on the scoreboard one must watch the playing field, not the 
scoreboard.
A Change in Media Economics and Some Valuation Math
In last year's report, I stated my opinion that the decline in 
the profitability of media companies reflected secular as well as 
cyclical factors. The events of 1991 have fortified that case: The 
economic strength of once-mighty media enterprises continues to 
erode as retailing patterns change and advertising and 
entertainment choices proliferate. In the business world, 
unfortunately, the rear-view mirror is always clearer than the 
windshield: A few years back no one linked to the media business - 
neither lenders, owners nor financial analysts - saw the economic 
deterioration that was in store for the industry. (But give me a 
few years and I'll probably convince myself that I did.)

     The fact is that newspaper, television, and magazine 
properties have begun to resemble
businesses
more than
franchises
in their economic behavior. Let's take a quick look at the 
characteristics separating these two classes of enterprise, keeping 
in mind, however, that many operations fall in some middle ground 
and can best be described as weak franchises or strong businesses.

     An economic franchise arises from a product or service that: 
(1) is needed or desired; (2) is thought by its customers to have 
no close substitute and; (3) is not subject to price regulation. 
The existence of all three conditions will be demonstrated by a 
company's ability to regularly price its product or service 
aggressively and thereby to earn high rates of return on capital. 
Moreover, franchises can tolerate mis-management. Inept managers 
may diminish a franchise's profitability, but they cannot inflict 
mortal damage.

     In contrast, "a business" earns exceptional profits only if it 
is the low-cost operator or if supply of its product or service is 
tight. Tightness in supply usually does not last long. With 
superior management, a company may maintain its status as a low-
cost operator for a much longer time, but even then unceasingly 
faces the possibility of competitive attack. And a business, unlike 
a franchise, can be killed by poor management.

     Until recently, media properties possessed the three 
characteristics of a franchise and consequently could both price 
aggressively and be managed loosely. Now, however, consumers 
looking for information and entertainment (their primary interest 
being the latter) enjoy greatly broadened choices as to where to 
find them. Unfortunately, demand can't expand in response to this 
new supply: 500 million American eyeballs and a 24-hour day are all 
that's available. The result is that competition has intensified, 
markets have fragmented, and the media industry has lost some - 
though far from all - of its franchise strength.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     The industry's weakened franchise has an impact on its value 
that goes far beyond the immediate effect on earnings. For an 
understanding of this phenomenon, let's look at some much over-
simplified, but relevant, math.

     A few years ago the conventional wisdom held that a newspaper, 
television or magazine property would forever increase its earnings 
at 6% or so annually and would do so
without the employment of 
additional capital
, for the reason that depreciation charges would 
roughly match capital expenditures and working capital requirements 
would be minor. Therefore, reported earnings (before amortization 
of intangibles) were also freely-distributable earnings, which 
meant that ownership of a media property could be construed as akin 
to owning a perpetual annuity set to grow at 6% a year. Say, next, 
that a discount rate of 10% was used to determine the present value 
of that earnings stream. One could then calculate that it was 
appropriate to pay a whopping $25 million for a property with 
current after-tax earnings of $1 million. (This after-tax multiplier 
of 25 translates to a multiplier on pre-tax earnings of about 16.)

     Now change the assumption and posit that the $1 million 
represents "normal earning power" and that earnings will bob around 
this figure cyclically. A "bob-around" pattern is indeed the lot of 
most businesses, whose income stream grows only if their owners are 
willing to commit more capital (usually in the form of retained 
earnings). Under our revised assumption, $1 million of earnings, 
discounted by the same 10%, translates to a $10 million valuation. 
Thus a seemingly modest shift in assumptions reduces the property's 
valuation to 10 times after-tax earnings (or about 6 1/2 times 
pre-tax earnings).

     Dollars are dollars whether they are derived from the 
operation of media properties or of steel mills. What in the past 
caused buyers to value a dollar of earnings from media far higher 
than a dollar from steel was that the earnings of a media property 
were expected to constantly grow (without the business requiring 
much additional capital), whereas steel earnings clearly fell in 
the bob-around category. Now, however, expectations for media have 
moved toward the bob-around model. And, as our simplified example 
illustrates, valuations must change dramatically when expectations 
are revised.

     We have a significant investment in media - both through our 
direct ownership of Buffalo News and our shareholdings in The 
Washington Post Company and Capital Cities/ABC - and the intrinsic 
value of this investment has declined materially because of the 
secular transformation that the industry is experiencing. (Cyclical 
factors have also hurt our current look-through earnings, but these 
factors do not reduce intrinsic value.) However, as our Business 
Principles on page 2-3 note, one of the rules by which we run 
Berkshire is that we do not sell businesses - or investee holdings 
that we have classified as permanent - simply because we see ways 
to use the money more advantageously elsewhere. (We did sell 
certain other media holdings sometime back, but these were 
relatively small.)

     The intrinsic value losses that we have suffered have been 
moderated because the Buffalo News, under Stan Lipsey's leadership, 
has done far better than most newspapers and because both Cap 
Cities and Washington Post are exceptionally well-managed. In 
particular, these companies stayed on the sidelines during the late 
1980's period in which purchasers of media properties regularly 
paid irrational prices. Also, the debt of both Cap Cities and 
Washington Post is small and roughly offset by cash that they hold. 
As a result, the shrinkage in the value of their assets has not 
been accentuated by the effects of leverage. Among publicly-owned 
media companies, our two investees are about the only ones 
essentially free of debt. Most of the other companies, through a 
combination of the aggressive acquisition policies they pursued and 
shrinking earnings, find themselves with debt equal to five or more 
times their current net income.

     The strong balance sheets and strong managements of Cap Cities 
and Washington Post leave us more comfortable with these 
investments than we would be with holdings in any other media 
companies. Moreover, most media properties continue to have far 
better economic characteristics than those possessed by the average 
American business. But gone are the days of bullet-proof franchises 
and cornucopian economics.
Twenty Years in a Candy Store
We've just passed a milestone: Twenty years ago, on January 3, 