We will soon purchase 60% of Marmon and will acquire virtually all of the balance within six
years. Our initial outlay will be $4.5 billion, and the price of our later purchases will be based on a formula
tied to earnings. Prior to our entry into the picture, the Pritzker family received substantial consideration
from Marmon’s distribution of cash, investments and certain businesses.
This deal was done in the way Jay would have liked. We arrived at a price using only Marmon’s
financial statements, employing no advisors and engaging in no nit-picking. I knew that the business
would be exactly as the Pritzkers represented, and they knew that we would close on the dot, however
chaotic financial markets might be. During the past year, many large deals have been renegotiated or killed
entirely. With the Pritzkers, as with Berkshire, a deal is a deal.
Marmon’s CEO, Frank Ptak, works closely with a long-time associate, John Nichols. John was
formerly the highly successful CEO of Illinois Tool Works (ITW), where he teamed with Frank to run a
mix of industrial businesses. Take a look at their ITW record; you’ll be impressed.

5

Byron Trott of Goldman Sachs – whose praises I sang in the 2003 report – facilitated the Marmon
transaction. Byron is the rare investment banker who puts himself in his client’s shoes. Charlie and I trust
him completely.
You’ll like the code name that Goldman Sachs assigned the deal. Marmon entered the auto
business in 1902 and exited it in 1933. Along the way it manufactured the Wasp, a car that won the first
Indianapolis 500 race, held in 1911. So this deal was labeled “Indy 500.”
************
In May 2006, I spoke at a lunch at Ben Bridge, our Seattle-based jewelry chain. The audience was
a number of its vendors, among them Dennis Ulrich, owner of a company that manufactured gold jewelry.
In January 2007, Dennis called me, suggesting that with Berkshire’s support he could build a large
jewelry supplier. We soon made a deal for his business, simultaneously purchasing a supplier of about
equal size. The new company, Richline Group, has since made two smaller acquisitions. Even with those,
Richline is far below the earnings threshold we normally require for purchases. I’m willing to bet,
however, that Dennis – with the help of his partner, Dave Meleski – will build a large operation, earning
good returns on capital employed.
Businesses – The Great, the Good and the Gruesome
Let’s take a look at what kind of businesses turn us on. And while we’re at it, let’s also discuss
what we wish to avoid.
Charlie and I look for companies that have a) a business we understand; b) favorable long-term
economics; c) able and trustworthy management; and d) a sensible price tag. We like to buy the whole
business or, if management is our partner, at least 80%. When control-type purchases of quality aren’t
available, though, we are also happy to simply buy small portions of great businesses by way of stockmarket purchases. It’s better to have a part interest in the Hope Diamond than to own all of a rhinestone.
A truly great business must have an enduring “moat” that protects excellent returns on invested
capital. The dynamics of capitalism guarantee that competitors will repeatedly assault any business
“castle” that is earning high returns. Therefore a formidable barrier such as a company’s being the lowcost producer (GEICO, Costco) or possessing a powerful world-wide brand (Coca-Cola, Gillette, American
Express) is essential for sustained success. Business history is filled with “Roman Candles,” companies
whose moats proved illusory and were soon crossed.
Our criterion of “enduring” causes us to rule out companies in industries prone to rapid and
continuous change. Though capitalism’s “creative destruction” is highly beneficial for society, it precludes
investment certainty. A moat that must be continuously rebuilt will eventually be no moat at all.
Additionally, this criterion eliminates the business whose success depends on having a great
manager. Of course, a terrific CEO is a huge asset for any enterprise, and at Berkshire we have an
abundance of these managers. Their abilities have created billions of dollars of value that would never
have materialized if typical CEOs had been running their businesses.
But if a business requires a superstar to produce great results, the business itself cannot be deemed
great. A medical partnership led by your area’s premier brain surgeon may enjoy outsized and growing
earnings, but that tells little about its future. The partnership’s moat will go when the surgeon goes. You
can count, though, on the moat of the Mayo Clinic to endure, even though you can’t name its CEO.

6

Long-term competitive advantage in a stable industry is what we seek in a business. If that comes
with rapid organic growth, great. But even without organic growth, such a business is rewarding. We will
simply take the lush earnings of the business and use them to buy similar businesses elsewhere. There’s no
rule that you have to invest money where you’ve earned it. Indeed, it’s often a mistake to do so: Truly
great businesses, earning huge returns on tangible assets, can’t for any extended period reinvest a large
portion of their earnings internally at high rates of return.
Let’s look at the prototype of a dream business, our own See’s Candy. The boxed-chocolates
industry in which it operates is unexciting: Per-capita consumption in the U.S. is extremely low and doesn’t
grow. Many once-important brands have disappeared, and only three companies have earned more than
token profits over the last forty years. Indeed, I believe that See’s, though it obtains the bulk of its revenues
from only a few states, accounts for nearly half of the entire industry’s earnings.
At See’s, annual sales were 16 million pounds of candy when Blue Chip Stamps purchased the
company in 1972. (Charlie and I controlled Blue Chip at the time and later merged it into Berkshire.) Last
year See’s sold 31 million pounds, a growth rate of only 2% annually. Yet its durable competitive
advantage, built by the See’s family over a 50-year period, and strengthened subsequently by Chuck
Huggins and Brad Kinstler, has produced extraordinary results for Berkshire.
We bought See’s for $25 million when its sales were $30 million and pre-tax earnings were less
than $5 million. The capital then required to conduct the business was $8 million. (Modest seasonal debt
was also needed for a few months each year.) Consequently, the company was earning 60% pre-tax on
invested capital. Two factors helped to minimize the funds required for operations. First, the product was
sold for cash, and that eliminated accounts receivable. Second, the production and distribution cycle was
short, which minimized inventories.
Last year See’s sales were $383 million, and pre-tax profits were $82 million. The capital now
required to run the business is $40 million. This means we have had to reinvest only $32 million since
1972 to handle the modest physical growth – and somewhat immodest financial growth – of the business.
In the meantime pre-tax earnings have totaled $1.35 billion. All of that, except for the $32 million, has
been sent to Berkshire (or, in the early years, to Blue Chip). After paying corporate taxes on the profits, we
have used the rest to buy other attractive businesses. Just as Adam and Eve kick-started an activity that led
to six billion humans, See’s has given birth to multiple new streams of cash for us. (The biblical command
to “be fruitful and multiply” is one we take seriously at Berkshire.)
There aren’t many See’s in Corporate America. Typically, companies that increase their earnings
from $5 million to $82 million require, say, $400 million or so of capital investment to finance their
growth. That’s because growing businesses have both working capital needs that increase in proportion to
sales growth and significant requirements for fixed asset investments.
A company that needs large increases in capital to engender its growth may well prove to be a
satisfactory investment. There is, to follow through on our example, nothing shabby about earning $82
million pre-tax on $400 million of net tangible assets. But that equation for the owner is vastly different
from the See’s situation. It’s far better to have an ever-increasing stream of earnings with virtually no
major capital requirements. Ask Microsoft or Google.
One example of good, but far from sensational, business economics is our own FlightSafety. This
company delivers benefits to its customers that are the equal of those delivered by any business that I know
of. It also possesses a durable competitive advantage: Going to any other flight-training provider than the
best is like taking the low bid on a surgical procedure.

7

Nevertheless, this business requires a significant reinvestment of earnings if it is to grow. When
we purchased FlightSafety in 1996, its pre-tax operating earnings were $111 million, and its net investment
in fixed assets was $570 million. Since our purchase, depreciation charges have totaled $923 million. But
capital expenditures have totaled $1.635 billion, most of that for simulators to match the new airplane