mistake-du-jour award, however, when the foolishness of the 
decision become obvious.  By this measure, 1994 was a vintage year 
with keen competition for the gold medal.  Here, I would like to 
tell you that the mistakes I will describe originated with Charlie. 
But whenever I try to explain things that way, my nose begins to 
grow.

     And the nominees are . . .

     Late in 1993 I sold 10 million shares of Cap Cities at $63; at 
year-end 1994, the price was $85.25.  (The difference is $222.5 
million for those of you who wish to avoid the pain of calculating 
the damage yourself.)  When we purchased the stock at $17.25 in 
1986, I told you that I had previously sold our Cap Cities holdings 
at $4.30 per share during 1978-80, and added that I was at a loss 
to explain my earlier behavior.  Now I've become a repeat offender. 
Maybe it's time to get a guardian appointed.

     Egregious as it is, the Cap Cities decision earns only a 
silver medal.  Top honors go to a mistake I made five years ago 
that fully ripened in 1994:  Our $358 million purchase of USAir 
preferred stock, on which the dividend was suspended in September. 
In the 1990 Annual Report I correctly described this deal as an 
"unforced error," meaning that I was neither pushed into the 
investment nor misled by anyone when making it.  Rather, this was a 
case of sloppy analysis, a lapse that may have been caused by the 
fact that we were buying a senior security or by hubris.  Whatever 
the reason, the mistake was large.

     Before this purchase, I simply failed to focus on the problems 
that would inevitably beset a carrier whose costs were both high 
and extremely difficult to lower.  In earlier years, these life-
threatening costs posed few problems.  Airlines were then protected 
from competition by regulation, and carriers could absorb high 
costs because they could pass them along by way of fares that were 
also high.

     When deregulation came along, it did not immediately change 
the picture:  The capacity of low-cost carriers was so small that 
the high-cost lines could, in large part, maintain their existing 
fare structures.  During this period, with the longer-term problems 
largely invisible but slowly metastasizing, the costs that were 
non-sustainable became further embedded.

     As the seat capacity of the low-cost operators expanded, their 
fares began to force the old-line, high-cost airlines to cut their 
own.  The day of reckoning for these airlines could be delayed by 
infusions of capital (such as ours into USAir), but eventually a 
fundamental rule of economics prevailed:  In an unregulated 
commodity business, a company must lower its costs to competitive 
levels or face extinction.  This principle should have been obvious 
to your Chairman, but I missed it.

     Seth Schofield, CEO of USAir, has worked diligently to correct 
the company's historical cost problems but, to date, has not 
managed to do so.  In part, this is because he has had to deal with 
a moving target, the result of certain major carriers having 
obtained labor concessions and other carriers having benefitted 
from "fresh-start" costs that came out of bankruptcy proceedings.  
(As Herb Kelleher, CEO of Southwest Airlines, has said:  
"Bankruptcy court for airlines has become a health spa.")  
Additionally, it should be no surprise to anyone that those airline 
employees who contractually receive above-market salaries will 
resist any reduction in these as long as their checks continue to 
clear.

     Despite this difficult situation, USAir may yet achieve the 
cost reductions it needs to maintain its viability  long-term.  But 
it is far from sure that will happen.

     Accordingly, we wrote our USAir investment down to $89.5 
million, 25 cents on the dollar at yearend 1994.  This valuation 
reflects both a possibility that our preferred will have its value 
fully or largely restored and an opposite possibility that the 
stock will eventually become worthless.  Whatever the outcome, we 
will heed a prime rule of investing:  You don't have to make it 
back the way that you lost it.

     The accounting effects of our USAir writedown are complicated. 
Under GAAP accounting, insurance companies are required to carry 
all stocks on their balance sheets at estimated market value.  
Therefore, at the end of last year's third quarter, we were 
carrying our USAir preferred at $89.5 million, or 25% of cost.  In 
other words, our net worth was at that time reflecting a value for 
USAir that was far below our $358 million cost.

     But in the fourth quarter, we concluded that the decline in 
value was, in accounting terms, "other than temporary," and that 
judgment required us to send the writedown of $269 million through 
our income statement.  The amount will have no other fourth-quarter 
effect.  That is, it will not reduce our net worth, because the 
diminution of value had already been reflected.

     Charlie and I will not stand for reelection to USAir's board 
at the upcoming annual meeting.  Should Seth wish to consult with 
us, however, we will be pleased to be of any help that we can.
Miscellaneous
Two CEO's who have done great things for Berkshire 
shareholders retired last year:  Dan Burke of Capital Cities/ABC 
and Carl Reichardt of Wells Fargo.  Dan and Carl encountered very 
tough industry conditions in recent years.  But their skill as 
managers allowed the businesses they ran to emerge from these 
periods with record earnings, added luster, and bright prospects.  
Additionally, Dan and Carl prepared well for their departure and 
left their companies in outstanding hands.  We owe them our 
gratitude.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     About 95.7% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 
1994 shareholder-designated contributions program.  Contributions 
made through the program were $10.4 million and 3,300 charities 
were recipients.

      Every year a few shareholders miss participating in the 
program because they either do not have their shares registered in 
their own names on the prescribed record date or because they fail 
to get the designation form back to us within the 60-day period 
allowed for its return.  Since we don't make exceptions when 
requirements aren't met, we urge that both new shareholders and old 
read the description of our shareholder-designated contributions 
program that appears on pages 50-51.
To participate in future programs, you must make sure your 
shares are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the 
nominee name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so 
registered on August 31, 1995 will be ineligible for the 1995 
program.
* * * * * * * * * * * *

     We made only one minor acquisition during 1994 - a small 
retail shoe chain - but our interest in finding good candidates 
remains as keen as ever.  The criteria we employ for purchases or 
mergers is detailed in the appendix on page 21.

     Last spring, we offered to merge with a large, family-
controlled business on terms that included a Berkshire convertible 
preferred stock.  Though we failed to reach an agreement, this 
episode made me realize that we needed to ask our shareholders to 
authorize preferred shares in case we wanted in the future to move 
quickly if a similar acquisition opportunity were to appear.  
Accordingly, our proxy presents a proposal that you authorize a 
large amount of preferred stock, which will be issuable on terms 
set by the Board of Directors.  You can be sure that Charlie and I 
will not use these shares without being completely satisfied that 
we are receiving as much in intrinsic value as we are giving.

                     * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Charlie and I hope you can come to the Annual Meeting - at a 
new site.  Last year, we slightly overran the Orpheum Theater's 
seating capacity of 2,750, and therefore we will assemble at 9:30 
a.m. on Monday, May 1, 1995, at the Holiday Convention Centre.  The 
main ballroom at the Centre can handle 3,300, and if need be, we 
will have audio and video equipment in an adjacent room capable of 
handling another 1,000 people.

     Last year we displayed some of Berkshire's products at the 
meeting, and as a result sold about 800 pounds of candy, 507 pairs 
of shoes, and over $12,000 of World Books and related publications. 
All these goods will be available again this year.  Though we like 
to think of the meeting as a spiritual experience, we must remember 
that even the least secular of religions includes the ritual of the 
collection plate.

     Of course, what you really should be purchasing is a video 
tape of the 1995 Orange Bowl.  Your Chairman views this classic 
nightly, switching to slow motion for the fourth quarter.  Our 
cover color this year is a salute to Nebraska's football coach, Tom 
Osborne, and his Cornhuskers, the country's top college team.  I 
urge you to wear Husker red to the annual meeting and promise you 
that at least 50% of your managerial duo will be in appropriate 
attire.

     We recommend that you promptly get hotel reservations for the 