---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2018
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2018ar/2018ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 308 - 932
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Berkshire earned $4.0 billion in 2018 utilizing generally accepted accounting principles (commonly called
“GAAP”). The components of that figure are $24.8 billion in operating earnings, a $3.0 billion non-cash loss from an
impairment of intangible assets (arising almost entirely from our equity interest in Kraft Heinz), $2.8 billion in realized
capital gains from the sale of investment securities and a $20.6 billion loss from a reduction in the amount of unrealized
capital gains that existed in our investment holdings.
A new GAAP rule requires us to include that last item in earnings. As I emphasized in the 2017 annual report,
neither Berkshire’s Vice Chairman, Charlie Munger, nor I believe that rule to be sensible. Rather, both of us have
consistently thought that at Berkshire this mark-to-market change would produce what I described as “wild and
capricious swings in our bottom line.”
The accuracy of that prediction can be suggested by our quarterly results during 2018. In the first and fourth
quarters, we reported GAAP losses of $1.1 billion and $25.4 billion respectively. In the second and third quarters, we
reported profits of $12 billion and $18.5 billion. In complete contrast to these gyrations, the many businesses that
Berkshire owns delivered consistent and satisfactory operating earnings in all quarters. For the year, those earnings
exceeded their 2016 high of $17.6 billion by 41%.
Wide swings in our quarterly GAAP earnings will inevitably continue. That’s because our huge equity
portfolio – valued at nearly $173 billion at the end of 2018 – will often experience one-day price fluctuations of $2
billion or more, all of which the new rule says must be dropped immediately to our bottom line. Indeed, in the fourth
quarter, a period of high volatility in stock prices, we experienced several days with a “profit” or “loss” of more than
$4 billion.
Our advice? Focus on operating earnings, paying little attention to gains or losses of any variety. My saying
that in no way diminishes the importance of our investments to Berkshire. Over time, Charlie and I expect them to
deliver substantial gains, albeit with highly irregular timing.
************
Long-time readers of our annual reports will have spotted the different way in which I opened this letter. For
nearly three decades, the initial paragraph featured the percentage change in Berkshire’s per-share book value. It’s
now time to abandon that practice.
The fact is that the annual change in Berkshire’s book value – which makes its farewell appearance on page
2 – is a metric that has lost the relevance it once had. Three circumstances have made that so. First, Berkshire has
gradually morphed from a company whose assets are concentrated in marketable stocks into one whose major value
resides in operating businesses. Charlie and I expect that reshaping to continue in an irregular manner. Second, while
our equity holdings are valued at market prices, accounting rules require our collection of operating companies to be
included in book value at an amount far below their current value, a mismark that has grown in recent years. Third, it
is likely that – over time – Berkshire will be a significant repurchaser of its shares, transactions that will take place at
prices above book value but below our estimate of intrinsic value. The math of such purchases is simple: Each
transaction makes per-share intrinsic value go up, while per-share book value goes down. That combination causes
the book-value scorecard to become increasingly out of touch with economic reality.

3

In future tabulations of our financial results, we expect to focus on Berkshire’s market price. Markets can be
extremely capricious: Just look at the 54-year history laid out on page 2. Over time, however, Berkshire’s stock price
will provide the best measure of business performance.
************
Before moving on, I want to give you some good news – really good news – that is not reflected in our
financial statements. It concerns the management changes we made in early 2018, when Ajit Jain was put in charge
of all insurance activities and Greg Abel was given authority over all other operations. These moves were overdue.
Berkshire is now far better managed than when I alone was supervising operations. Ajit and Greg have rare talents,
and Berkshire blood flows through their veins.
Now let’s take a look at what you own.
Focus on the Forest – Forget the Trees
Investors who evaluate Berkshire sometimes obsess on the details of our many and diverse businesses – our
economic “trees,” so to speak. Analysis of that type can be mind-numbing, given that we own a vast array of
specimens, ranging from twigs to redwoods. A few of our trees are diseased and unlikely to be around a decade from
now. Many others, though, are destined to grow in size and beauty.
Fortunately, it’s not necessary to evaluate each tree individually to make a rough estimate of Berkshire’s
intrinsic business value. That’s because our forest contains five “groves” of major importance, each of which can be
appraised, with reasonable accuracy, in its entirety. Four of those groves are differentiated clusters of businesses and
financial assets that are easy to understand. The fifth – our huge and diverse insurance operation – delivers great value
to Berkshire in a less obvious manner, one I will explain later in this letter.
Before we look more closely at the first four groves, let me remind you of our prime goal in the deployment
of your capital: to buy ably-managed businesses, in whole or part, that possess favorable and durable economic
characteristics. We also need to make these purchases at sensible prices.
Sometimes we can buy control of companies that meet our tests. Far more often, we find the attributes we
seek in publicly-traded businesses, in which we normally acquire a 5% to 10% interest. Our two-pronged approach to
huge-scale capital allocation is rare in corporate America and, at times, gives us an important advantage.
In recent years, the sensible course for us to follow has been clear: Many stocks have offered far more for
our money than we could obtain by purchasing businesses in their entirety. That disparity led us to buy about $43
billion of marketable equities last year, while selling only $19 billion. Charlie and I believe the companies in which
we invested offered excellent value, far exceeding that available in takeover transactions.
Despite our recent additions to marketable equities, the most valuable grove in Berkshire’s forest remains the
many dozens of non-insurance businesses that Berkshire controls (usually with 100% ownership and never with less
than 80%). Those subsidiaries earned $16.8 billion last year. When we say “earned,” moreover, we are describing what
remains after all income taxes, interest payments, managerial compensation (whether cash or stock-based),
restructuring expenses, depreciation, amortization and home-office overhead.
That brand of earnings is a far cry from that frequently touted by Wall Street bankers and corporate CEOs.
Too often, their presentations feature “adjusted EBITDA,” a measure that redefines “earnings” to exclude a variety of
all-too-real costs.

4

For example, managements sometimes assert that their company’s stock-based compensation shouldn’t be
counted as an expense. (What else could it be – a gift from shareholders?) And restructuring expenses? Well, maybe
last year’s exact rearrangement won’t recur. But restructurings of one sort or another are common in business –
Berkshire has gone down that road dozens of times, and our shareholders have always borne the costs of doing so.
Abraham Lincoln once posed the question: “If you call a dog’s tail a leg, how many legs does it have?” and
then answered his own query: “Four, because calling a tail a leg doesn’t make it one.” Abe would have felt lonely on
Wall Street.
Charlie and I do contend that our acquisition-related amortization expenses of $1.4 billion (detailed on page
K-84) are not a true economic cost. We add back such amortization “costs” to GAAP earnings when we are evaluating
both private businesses and marketable stocks.
In contrast, Berkshire’s $8.4 billion depreciation charge understates our true economic cost. In fact, we need
to spend more than this sum annually to simply remain competitive in our many operations. Beyond those
“maintenance” capital expenditures, we spend large sums in pursuit of growth. Overall, Berkshire invested a record
$14.5 billion last year in plant, equipment and other fixed assets, with 89% of that spent in America.
Berkshire’s runner-up grove by value is its collection of equities, typically involving a 5% to 10% ownership
position in a very large company. As noted earlier, our equity investments were worth nearly $173 billion at yearend,
an amount far above their cost. If the portfolio had been sold at its yearend valuation, federal income tax of about
$14.7 billion would have been payable on the gain. In all likelihood, we will hold most of these stocks for a long time.
Eventually, however, gains generate taxes at whatever rate prevails at the time of sale.