risks that far exceed the appetite of even our largest competitors. Over time, insuring these jumbo risks should be
profitable, though periodically they will bring on a terrible year.
The bottom-line today is that we will write some coverage for terrorist-related losses, including a few noncorrelated policies with very large limits. But we will not knowingly expose Berkshire to losses beyond what we
can comfortably handle. We will control our total exposure, no matter what the competition does.
Insurance Operations in 2001
Over the years, our insurance business has provided ever-growing, low-cost funds that have fueled much
of Berkshire’s growth. Charlie and I believe this will continue to be the case. But we stumbled in a big way in
2001, largely because of underwriting losses at General Re.
In the past I have assured you that General Re was underwriting with discipline – and I have been proven
wrong. Though its managers’ intentions were good, the company broke each of the three underwriting rules I set
forth in the last section and has paid a huge price for doing so. One obvious cause for its failure is that it did not
reserve correctly – more about this in the next section – and therefore severely miscalculated the cost of the product
it was selling. Not knowing your costs will cause problems in any business. In long-tail reinsurance, where years
of unawareness will promote and prolong severe underpricing, ignorance of true costs is dynamite.
Additionally, General Re was overly-competitive in going after, and retaining, business. While all
concerned may intend to underwrite with care, it is nonetheless difficult for able, hard-driving professionals to curb
their urge to prevail over competitors. If “winning,” however, is equated with market share rather than profits,
trouble awaits. “No” must be an important part of any underwriter’s vocabulary.
At the risk of sounding Pollyannaish, I now assure you that underwriting discipline is being restored at
General Re (and its Cologne Re subsidiary) with appropriate urgency. Joe Brandon was appointed General Re’s
CEO in September and, along with Tad Montross, its new president, is committed to producing underwriting
profits. Last fall, Charlie and I read Jack Welch’s terrific book, Jack, Straight from the Gut (get a copy!). In
discussing it, we agreed that Joe has many of Jack’s characteristics: He is smart, energetic, hands-on, and expects
much of both himself and his organization.
When it was an independent company, General Re often shone, and now it also has the considerable
strengths Berkshire brings to the table. With that added advantage and with underwriting discipline restored,
General Re should be a huge asset for Berkshire. I predict that Joe and Tad will make it so.
************
At the National Indemnity reinsurance operation, Ajit Jain continues to add enormous value to Berkshire.
Working with only 18 associates, Ajit manages one of the world’s largest reinsurance operations measured by
assets, and the largest, based upon the size of individual risks assumed.
I have known the details of almost every policy that Ajit has written since he came with us in 1986, and
never on even a single occasion have I seen him break any of our three underwriting rules. His extraordinary
discipline, of course, does not eliminate losses; it does, however, prevent foolish losses. And that’s the key: Just as
is the case in investing, insurers produce outstanding long-term results primarily by avoiding dumb decisions, rather
than by making brilliant ones.

9

Since September 11th, Ajit has been particularly busy. Among the policies we have written and retained
entirely for our own account are (1) $578 million of property coverage for a South American refinery once a loss
there exceeds $1 billion; (2) $1 billion of non-cancelable third-party liability coverage for losses arising from acts of
terrorism at several large international airlines; (3) £500 million of property coverage on a large North Sea oil
platform, covering losses from terrorism and sabotage, above £600 million that the insured retained or reinsured
elsewhere; and (4) significant coverage on the Sears Tower, including losses caused by terrorism, above a $500
million threshold. We have written many other jumbo risks as well, such as protection for the World Cup Soccer
Tournament and the 2002 Winter Olympics. In all cases, however, we have attempted to avoid writing groups of
policies from which losses might seriously aggregate. We will not, for example, write coverages on a large number
of office and apartment towers in a single metropolis without excluding losses from both a nuclear explosion and
the fires that would follow it.
No one can match the speed with which Ajit can offer huge policies. After September 11th, his quickness
to respond, always important, has become a major competitive advantage. So, too, has our unsurpassed financial
strength. Some reinsurers – particularly those who, in turn, are accustomed to laying off much of their business on a
second layer of reinsurers known as retrocessionaires – are in a weakened condition and would have difficulty
surviving a second mega-cat. When a daisy chain of retrocessionaires exists, a single weak link can pose trouble for
all. In assessing the soundness of their reinsurance protection, insurers must therefore apply a stress test to all
participants in the chain, and must contemplate a catastrophe loss occurring during a very unfavorable economic
environment. After all, you only find out who is swimming naked when the tide goes out. At Berkshire, we retain
our risks and depend on no one. And whatever the world’s problems, our checks will clear.
Ajit’s business will ebb and flow – but his underwriting principles won’t waver. It’s impossible to
overstate his value to Berkshire.
************
GEICO, by far our largest primary insurer, made major progress in 2001, thanks to Tony Nicely, its CEO,
and his associates. Quite simply, Tony is an owner’s dream.
GEICO’s premium volume grew 6.6% last year, its float grew $308 million, and it achieved an
underwriting profit of $221 million. This means we were actually paid that amount last year to hold the $4.25
billion in float, which of course doesn’t belong to Berkshire but can be used by us for investment.
The only disappointment at GEICO in 2001 – and it’s an important one – was our inability to add
policyholders. Our preferred customers (81% of our total) grew by 1.6% but our standard and non-standard policies
fell by 10.1%. Overall, policies in force fell .8%.
New business has improved in recent months. Our closure rate from telephone inquiries has climbed, and
our Internet business continues its steady growth. We, therefore, expect at least a modest gain in policy count
during 2002. Tony and I are eager to commit much more to marketing than the $219 million we spent last year, but
at the moment we cannot see how to do so effectively. In the meantime, our operating costs are low and far below
those of our major competitors; our prices are attractive; and our float is cost-free and growing.
************
Our other primary insurers delivered their usual fine results last year. These operations, run by Rod
Eldred, John Kizer, Tom Nerney, Michael Stearns, Don Towle and Don Wurster had combined premium volume of
$579 million, up 40% over 2000. Their float increased 14.5% to $685 million, and they recorded an underwriting
profit of $30 million. In aggregate, these companies are one of the finest insurance operations in the country, and
their 2002 prospects look excellent.
“Loss Development” and Insurance Accounting
Bad terminology is the enemy of good thinking. When companies or investment professionals use terms
such as “EBITDA” and “pro forma,” they want you to unthinkingly accept concepts that are dangerously flawed.
(In golf, my score is frequently below par on a pro forma basis: I have firm plans to “restructure” my putting stroke
and therefore only count the swings I take before reaching the green.)

10

In insurance reporting, “loss development” is a widely used term – and one that is seriously misleading.
First, a definition: Loss reserves at an insurer are not funds tucked away for a rainy day, but rather a liability
account. If properly calculated, the liability states the amount that an insurer will have to pay for all losses
(including associated costs) that have occurred prior to the reporting date but have not yet been paid. When
calculating the reserve, the insurer will have been notified of many of the losses it is destined to pay, but others will
not yet have been reported to it. These losses are called IBNR, for incurred but not reported. Indeed, in some cases
(involving, say, product liability or embezzlement) the insured itself will not yet be aware that a loss has occurred.
It’s clearly difficult for an insurer to put a figure on the ultimate cost of all such reported and unreported
events. But the ability to do so with reasonable accuracy is vital. Otherwise the insurer’s managers won’t know
what its actual loss costs are and how these compare to the premiums being charged. GEICO got into huge trouble