uninvited and unannounced. Davy later became the company's CEO and has
remained my friend and teacher for 47 years. The huge rewards that GEICO
has heaped on Berkshire would not have materialized had it not been for
his generosity and wisdom. Indeed, had I not met Davy, I might never have
grown to understand the whole field of insurance, which over the years
has played such a key part in Berkshire's success.

Davy turned 95 last year, and it's
difficult for him to travel. Nevertheless, Tony and I hope that we can
persuade him to attend our annual meeting, so that our shareholders can
properly thank him for his important contributions to Berkshire. Wish us
luck.

* * * * * * * * * * * *

Though they are, of course, far
smaller than GEICO, our other primary insurance operations turned in results
last year that, in aggregate, were fully as stunning. National Indemnity's
traditional business had an underwriting profit of 32.9% and, as usual,
developed a large amount of float compared to premium volume. Over the
last three years, this segment of our business, run by Don Wurster, has
had a profit of 24.3%. Our homestate operation, managed by Rod Eldred,
recorded an underwriting profit of 14.1% even though it continued to absorb
the expenses of geographical expansion. Rod's three-year record is an amazing
15.1%. Berkshire's workers' compensation business, run out of California
by Brad Kinstler, had a modest underwriting loss in a difficult environment;
its three-year underwriting record is a positive 1.5%. John Kizer, at Central
States Indemnity, set a new volume record while generating good underwriting
earnings. At Kansas Bankers Surety, Don Towle more than lived up to the
high expectations we had when we purchased the company in 1996.

In aggregate, these five operations
recorded an underwriting profit of 15.0%. The two Dons, along with Rod,
Brad and John, have created significant value for Berkshire, and we believe
there is more to come.

Sources of Reported Earnings

The table that follows shows the
main sources of Berkshire's reported earnings. In this presentation, purchase-accounting
adjustments are not assigned to the specific businesses to which they apply,
but are instead aggregated and shown separately. This procedure lets you
view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been reported had
we not purchased them. For the reasons discussed on pages 69 and 70, this
form of presentation seems to us to be more useful to investors and managers
than one utilizing generally-accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which
require purchase-premiums to be charged off business-by-business. The total
earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP total
in our audited financial statements.

(1) From date of acquisition,
December 23, 1996. (2) Includes Star
Furniture from July 1, 1997. (3) Excludes interest
expense of Finance Businesses.

Overall, our operating businesses
continue to perform exceptionally well, far outdoing their industry norms.
We are particularly pleased that profits improved at Helzberg's after a
disappointing 1996. Jeff Comment, Helzberg's CEO, took decisive steps early
in 1997 that enabled the company to gain real momentum by the crucial Christmas
season. In the early part of this year, as well, sales remained strong.

Casual observers may not appreciate
just how extraordinary the performance of many of our businesses has been:
If the earnings history of, say, Buffalo News or Scott Fetzer is compared
to the records of their publicly-owned peers, their performance might seem
to have been unexceptional. But most public companies retain two-thirds
or more of their earnings to fund their corporate growth. In contrast,
those Berkshire subsidiaries have paid 100% of their earnings to us, their
parent company, to fund our growth.

In effect, the records of the public
companies reflect the cumulative benefits of the earnings they have retained,
while the records of our operating subsidiaries get no such boost. Over
time, however, the earnings these subsidiaries have distributed have created
truly huge amounts of earning power elsewhere in Berkshire. The News, See's
and Scott Fetzer have alone paid us $1.8 billion, which we have gainfully
employed elsewhere. We owe their managements our gratitude for much more
than the earnings that are detailed in the table.

Additional information about our
various businesses is given on pages 36 - 50, where you will also find
our segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis. In addition, on pages 55
- 61, we have rearranged Berkshire's financial data into four segments
on a non-GAAP basis, a presentation that corresponds to the way Charlie
and I think about the company. Our intent is to supply you with the financial
information that we would wish you to give us if our positions were reversed.

Look-Through Earnings

Reported earnings are a poor measure
of economic progress at Berkshire, in part because the numbers shown in
the table presented earlier include only the dividends we receive from
investees -- though these dividends typically represent only a small fraction
of the earnings attributable to our ownership. Not that we mind this division
of money, since on balance we regard the undistributed earnings of investees
as more valuable to us than the portion paid out. The reason is simple:
Our investees often have the opportunity to reinvest earnings at high rates
of return. So why should we want them paid out?

To depict something closer to economic
reality at Berkshire than reported earnings, though, we employ the concept
of "look-through" earnings. As we calculate these, they consist
of: (1) the operating earnings reported in the previous section, plus;
(2) our share of the retained operating earnings of major investees that,
under GAAP accounting, are not reflected in our profits, less; (3) an allowance
for the tax that would be paid by Berkshire if these retained earnings
of investees had instead been distributed to us. When tabulating "operating
earnings" here, we exclude purchase-accounting adjustments as well
as capital gains and other major non-recurring items.

The following table sets forth
our 1997 look-through earnings, though I warn you that the figures can
be no more than approximate, since they are based on a number of judgment
calls. (The dividends paid to us by these investees have been included
in the operating earnings itemized on page 11, mostly under "Insurance
Group: Net Investment Income.")

Acquisitions of 1997

In 1997, we agreed to acquire Star
Furniture and International Dairy Queen (a deal that closed early in 1998).
Both businesses fully meet our criteria: They are understandable; possess
excellent economics; and are run by outstanding people.

The Star transaction has an interesting
history. Whenever we buy into an industry whose leading participants aren't
known to me, I always ask our new partners, "Are there any more at
home like you?" Upon our purchase of Nebraska Furniture Mart in 1983,
therefore, the Blumkin family told me about three outstanding furniture
retailers in other parts of the country. At the time, however, none was
for sale.

Many years later, Irv Blumkin learned
that Bill Child, CEO of R.C. Willey -- one of the recommended three --
might be interested in merging, and we promptly made the deal described
in the 1995 report. We have been delighted with that association -- Bill
is the perfect partner. Furthermore, when we asked Bill about industry
standouts, he came up with the remaining two names given me by the Blumkins,
one of these being Star Furniture of Houston. But time went by without
there being any indication that either of the two was available.

On the Thursday before last year's
annual meeting, however, Bob Denham of Salomon told me that Melvyn Wolff,
the long-time controlling shareholder and CEO of Star, wanted to talk.
At our invitation, Melvyn came to the meeting and spent his time in Omaha
confirming his positive feelings about Berkshire. I, meanwhile, looked
at Star's financials, and liked what I saw.

A few days later, Melvyn and I
met in New York and made a deal in a single, two-hour session. As was the
case with the Blumkins and Bill Child, I had no need to check leases, work
out employment contracts, etc. I knew I was dealing with a man of integrity
and that's what counted.

Though the Wolff family's association
with Star dates back to 1924, the business struggled until Melvyn and his
sister Shirley Toomin took over in 1962. Today Star operates 12 stores
-- ten in Houston and one each in Austin and Bryan -- and will soon move
into San Antonio as well. We won't be surprised if Star is many times its
present size a decade from now.

Here's a story illustrating what
Melvyn and Shirley are like: When they told their associates of the sale,
they also announced that Star would make large, special payments to those
who had helped them succeed -- and then defined that group as everyone
in the business. Under the terms of our deal, it was Melvyn and Shirley's
money, not ours, that funded this distribution. Charlie and I love it when