original issue price plus 5.5% compounded semi-annually) and on 
two specified days, September 28 of 1994 and 1999, the 
bondholders can require Berkshire to buy the securities at their 
accreted value.

     For tax purposes, Berkshire is entitled to deduct the 5.5% 
interest accrual each year, even though we make no payments to 
the bondholders. Thus the net effect to us, resulting from the 
reduced taxes, is positive cash flow. That is a very significant 
benefit. Some unknowable variables prevent us from calculating 
our exact effective rate of interest, but under all circumstances 
it will be well below 5.5%. There is meanwhile a symmetry to the 
tax law: Any taxable holder of the bonds must pay tax each year 
on the 5.5% interest, even though he receives no cash.

     Neither our bonds nor those of certain other companies that 
issued similar bonds last year (notably Loews and Motorola) 
resemble the great bulk of zero-coupon bonds that have been 
issued in recent years. Of these, Charlie and I have been, and 
will continue to be, outspoken critics. As I will later explain, 
such bonds have often been used in the most deceptive of ways and 
with deadly consequences to investors. But before we tackle that 
subject, let's travel back to Eden, to a time when the apple had 
not yet been bitten.

     If you're my age you bought your first zero-coupon bonds 
during World War II, by purchasing the famous Series E U. S. 
Savings Bond, the most widely-sold bond issue in history. (After 
the war, these bonds were held by one out of two U. S. 
households.) Nobody, of course, called the Series E a zero-coupon 
bond, a term in fact that I doubt had been invented. But that's 
precisely what the Series E was.

     These bonds came in denominations as small as $18.75. That 
amount purchased a $25 obligation of the United States government 
due in 10 years, terms that gave the buyer a compounded annual 
return of 2.9%. At the time, this was an attractive offer: the 
2.9% rate was higher than that generally available on Government 
bonds and the holder faced no market-fluctuation risk, since he 
could at any time cash in his bonds with only a minor reduction 
in interest.

     A second form of zero-coupon U. S. Treasury issue, also 
benign and useful, surfaced in the last decade. One problem with 
a normal bond is that even though it pays a given interest rate - 
say 10% - the holder cannot be assured that a compounded 10% 
return will be realized. For that rate to materialize, each semi-
annual coupon must be reinvested at 10% as it is received. If 
current interest rates are, say, only 6% or 7% when these coupons 
come due, the holder will be unable to compound his money over 
the life of the bond at the advertised rate. For pension funds or 
other investors with long-term liabilities, "reinvestment risk" 
of this type can be a serious problem. Savings Bonds might have 
solved it, except that they are issued only to individuals and 
are unavailable in large denominations. What big buyers needed 
was huge quantities of "Savings Bond Equivalents."

     Enter some ingenious and, in this case, highly useful 
investment bankers (led, I'm happy to say, by Salomon Brothers). 
They created the instrument desired by "stripping" the semi-
annual coupons from standard Government issues. Each coupon, once 
detached, takes on the essential character of a Savings Bond 
since it represents a single sum due sometime in the future. For 
example, if you strip the 40 semi-annual coupons from a U. S. 
Government Bond due in the year 2010, you will have 40 zero-
coupon bonds, with maturities from six months to 20 years, each 
of which can then be bundled with other coupons of like maturity 
and marketed. If current interest rates are, say, 10% for all 
maturities, the six-month issue will sell for 95.24% of maturity 
value and the 20-year issue will sell for 14.20%. The purchaser 
of any given maturity is thus guaranteed a compounded rate of 10% 
for his entire holding period. Stripping of government bonds has 
occurred on a large scale in recent years, as long-term 
investors, ranging from pension funds to individual IRA accounts, 
recognized these high-grade, zero-coupon issues to be well suited 
to their needs.

     But as happens in Wall Street all too often, what the wise 
do in the beginning, fools do in the end. In the last few years 
zero-coupon bonds (and their functional equivalent, pay-in-kind 
bonds, which distribute additional PIK bonds semi-annually as 
interest instead of paying cash) have been issued in enormous 
quantities by ever-junkier credits. To these issuers, zero (or 
PIK) bonds offer one overwhelming advantage:  It is impossible to 
default on a promise to pay nothing. Indeed, if LDC governments 
had issued no debt in the 1970's other than long-term zero-coupon 
obligations, they would now have a spotless record as debtors.

     This principle at work - that you need not default for a 
long time if you solemnly promise to pay nothing for a long time 
- has not been lost on promoters and investment bankers seeking 
to finance ever-shakier deals. But its acceptance by lenders took 
a while: When the leveraged buy-out craze began some years back, 
purchasers could borrow only on a reasonably sound basis, in 
which conservatively-estimated
free
cash flow - that is, 
operating earnings plus depreciation and amortization less 
normalized capital expenditures - was adequate to cover both 
interest and modest reductions in debt.

     Later, as the adrenalin of deal-makers surged, businesses 
began to be purchased at prices so high that all free cash flow 
necessarily had to be allocated to the payment of interest. That 
left nothing for the paydown of debt. In effect, a Scarlett 
O'Hara "I'll think about it tomorrow" position in respect to 
principal payments was taken by borrowers and accepted by a new 
breed of lender, the buyer of original-issue junk bonds. Debt now 
became something to be refinanced rather than repaid. The change 
brings to mind a
New Yorker
cartoon in which the grateful 
borrower rises to shake the hand of the bank's lending officer 
and gushes: "I don't know how I'll ever repay you."

     Soon borrowers found even the new, lax standards intolerably 
binding. To induce lenders to finance even sillier transactions, 
they introduced an abomination, EBDIT - Earnings Before 
Depreciation, Interest and Taxes - as the test of a company's 
ability to pay interest. Using this sawed-off yardstick, the 
borrower ignored depreciation as an expense on the theory that it 
did not require a current cash outlay. 

     Such an attitude is clearly delusional. At 95% of American 
businesses, capital expenditures that over time roughly 
approximate depreciation are a necessity and are every bit as 
real an expense as labor or utility costs. Even a high school 
dropout knows that to finance a car he must have income that 
covers not only interest and operating expenses, but also 
realistically-calculated depreciation. He would be laughed out of 
the bank if he started talking about EBDIT. 

     Capital outlays at a business can be skipped, of course, in 
any given month, just as a human can skip a day or even a week of 
eating. But if the skipping becomes routine and is not made up, 
the body weakens and eventually dies. Furthermore, a start-and-
stop feeding policy will over time produce a less healthy 
organism, human or corporate, than that produced by a steady 
diet. As businessmen, Charlie and I relish having competitors who 
are unable to fund capital expenditures.

     You might think that waving away a major expense such as 
depreciation in an attempt to make a terrible deal look like a 
good one hits the limits of Wall Street's ingenuity. If so, you 
haven't been paying attention during the past few years. 
Promoters needed to find a way to justify even pricier 
acquisitions. Otherwise, they risked - heaven forbid! - losing 
deals to other promoters with more "imagination."

     So, stepping through the Looking Glass, promoters and their 
investment bankers proclaimed that EBDIT should now be measured 
against cash interest only, which meant that interest accruing on 
zero-coupon or PIK bonds could be ignored when the financial 
feasibility of a transaction was being assessed. This approach 
not only relegated depreciation expense to the let's-ignore-it 
corner, but gave similar treatment to what was usually a 
significant portion of interest expense. To their shame, many 
professional investment managers went along with this nonsense, 
though they usually were careful to do so only with clients' 
money, not their own. (Calling these managers "professionals" is 
actually too kind; they should be designated "promotees.")

     Under this new standard, a business earning, say, $100 
million pre-tax and having debt on which $90 million of interest 
must be paid currently, might use a zero-coupon or PIK issue to 
incur another $60 million of annual interest that would accrue 
and compound but not come due for some years. The rate on these 
issues would typically be very high, which means that the 