its members have character that matches their extraordinary 
abilities.
o
Last year I stated unequivocally that pre-tax margins at 
The Buffalo News would fall in 1988.  That forecast would have 
proved correct at almost any other newspaper our size or larger.  
But Stan Lipsey - bless him - has managed to make me look 
foolish.

     Though we increased our prices a bit less than the industry 
average last year, and though our newsprint costs and wage rates 
rose in line with industry norms, Stan actually improved margins 
a tad.  No one in the newspaper business has a better managerial 
record.  He has achieved it, furthermore, while running a paper 
that gives readers an extraordinary amount of news.  We believe 
that our “newshole” percentage - the portion of the paper devoted 
to news - is bigger than that of any other dominant paper of our 
size or larger.  The percentage was 49.5% in 1988 versus 49.8% in 
1987.  We are committed to keeping it around 50%, whatever the 
level or trend of profit margins.

     Charlie and I have loved the newspaper business since we 
were youngsters, and we have had great fun with the News in the 
12 years since we purchased it.  We were fortunate to find Murray 
Light, a top-flight editor, on the scene when we arrived and he 
has made us proud of the paper ever since.
o
See’s Candies sold a record 25.1 million pounds in 1988.  
Prospects did not look good at the end of October, but excellent 
Christmas volume, considerably better than the record set in 
1987, turned the tide.

     As we’ve told you before, See’s business continues to become 
more Christmas-concentrated.  In 1988, the Company earned a 
record 90% of its full-year profits in December: $29 million out 
of $32.5 million before tax. (It’s enough to make you believe in 
Santa Claus.) December’s deluge of business produces a modest 
seasonal bulge in Berkshire’s corporate earnings.  Another small 
bulge occurs in the first quarter, when most World Book annuals 
are sold.

     Charlie and I put Chuck Huggins in charge of See’s about 
five minutes after we bought the company.  Upon reviewing his 
record, you may wonder what took us so long.
o
At Fechheimer, the Heldmans - Bob, George, Gary, Roger and 
Fred - are the Cincinnati counterparts of the Blumkins.  Neither 
furniture retailing nor uniform manufacturing has inherently 
attractive economics.  In these businesses, only exceptional 
managements can deliver high returns on invested capital.  And 
that’s exactly what the five Heldmans do. (As Mets announcer 
Ralph Kiner once said when comparing pitcher Steve Trout to his 
father, Dizzy Trout, the famous Detroit Tigers pitcher: “There’s 
a lot of heredity in that family.”)

     Fechheimer made a fairly good-sized acquisition in 1988.  
Charlie and I have such confidence in the business savvy of the 
Heldman family that we okayed the deal without even looking at 
it.  There are very few managements anywhere - including those 
running the top tier companies of the
Fortune 500
- in which we 
would exhibit similar confidence.

     Because of both this acquisition and some internal growth, 
sales at Fechheimer should be up significantly in 1989.
o
All of the operations managed by Ralph Schey - World Book, 
Kirby, and The Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group - performed 
splendidly in 1988.  Returns on the capital entrusted to Ralph 
continue to be exceptional.

     Within the Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group, particularly 
fine progress was recorded at its largest unit, Campbell 
Hausfeld.  This company, the country’s leading producer of small 
and medium-sized air compressors, has more than doubled earnings 
since 1986.

     Unit sales at both Kirby and World Book were up 
significantly in 1988, with export business particularly strong.  
World Book became available in the Soviet Union in September, 
when that country’s largest American book store opened in Moscow.  
Ours is the only general encyclopedia offered at the store.

     Ralph’s personal productivity is amazing: In addition to 
running 19 businesses in superb fashion, he is active at The 
Cleveland Clinic, Ohio University, Case Western Reserve, and a 
venture capital operation that has spawned sixteen Ohio-based 
companies and resurrected many others.  Both Ohio and Berkshire 
are fortunate to have Ralph on their side.
Borsheim’s
It was in 1983 that Berkshire purchased an 80% interest in 
The Nebraska Furniture Mart.  Your Chairman blundered then by 
neglecting to ask Mrs. B a question any schoolboy would have 
thought of: “Are there any more at home like you?” Last month I 
corrected the error: We are now 80% partners with another branch 
of the family.

     After Mrs. B came over from Russia in 1917, her parents and 
five siblings followed. (Her two other siblings had preceded 
her.) Among the sisters was Rebecca Friedman who, with her 
husband, Louis, escaped in 1922 to the west through Latvia in a 
journey as perilous as Mrs. B’s earlier odyssey to the east 
through Manchuria.  When the family members reunited in Omaha 
they had no tangible assets.  However, they came equipped with an 
extraordinary combination of brains, integrity, and enthusiasm 
for work - and that’s all they needed.  They have since proved 
themselves invincible.

     In 1948 Mr. Friedman purchased Borsheim’s, a small Omaha 
jewelry store.  He was joined in the business by his son, Ike, in 
1950 and, as the years went by, Ike’s son, Alan, and his sons-in-
law, Marvin Cohn and Donald Yale, came in also.

     You won’t be surprised to learn that this family brings to 
the jewelry business precisely the same approach that the 
Blumkins bring to the furniture business.  The cornerstone for 
both enterprises is Mrs. B’s creed: “Sell cheap and tell the 
truth.” Other fundamentals at both businesses are: (1) single 
store operations featuring huge inventories that provide 
customers with an enormous selection across all price ranges, (2) 
daily attention to detail by top management, (3) rapid turnover, 
(4) shrewd buying, and (5) incredibly low expenses.  The 
combination of the last three factors lets both stores offer 
everyday prices that no one in the country comes close to 
matching.

     Most people, no matter how sophisticated they are in other 
matters, feel like babes in the woods when purchasing jewelry.  
They can judge neither quality nor price.  For them only one rule 
makes sense: If you don’t know jewelry, know the jeweler.

     I can assure you that those who put their trust in Ike 
Friedman and his family will never be disappointed.  The way in 
which we purchased our interest in their business is the ultimate 
testimonial.  Borsheim’s had no audited financial statements; 
nevertheless, we didn’t take inventory, verify receivables or 
audit the operation in any way.  Ike simply told us what was so -
- and on that basis we drew up a one-page contract and wrote a 
large check.

     Business at Borsheim’s has mushroomed in recent years as the 
reputation of the Friedman family has spread.  Customers now come 
to the store from all over the country.  Among them have been 
some friends of mine from both coasts who thanked me later for 
getting them there.

     Borsheim’s new links to Berkshire will change nothing in the 
way this business is run.  All members of the Friedman family 
will continue to operate just as they have before; Charlie and I 
will stay on the sidelines where we belong.  And when we say “all 
members,” the words have real meaning.  Mr. and Mrs. Friedman, at 
88 and 87, respectively, are in the store daily.  The wives of 
Ike, Alan, Marvin and Donald all pitch in at busy times, and a 
fourth generation is beginning to learn the ropes.

     It is great fun to be in business with people you have long 
admired.  The Friedmans, like the Blumkins, have achieved success 
because they have deserved success.  Both families focus on 
what’s right for the customer and that, inevitably, works out 
well for them, also.  We couldn’t have better partners.
Insurance Operations
Shown below is an updated version of our usual table 
presenting key figures for the insurance industry:
Statutory
          Yearly Change    Combined Ratio    Yearly Change   Inflation Rate 
           in Premiums   After Policyholder   in Incurred     Measured by 
           Written (%)        Dividends        Losses (%)   GNP Deflator (%)
-------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------
1981 .....     3.8              106.0             6.5              9.6
1982 .....     3.7              109.6             8.4              6.4
1983 .....     5.0              112.0             6.8              3.8
1984 .....     8.5              118.0            16.9              3.7
1985 .....    22.1              116.3            16.1              3.2
1986 .....    22.2              108.0            13.5              2.7
1987 .....     9.4              104.6             7.8              3.3
1988 (Est.)    3.9              105.4             4.2              3.6

Source: A.M. Best Co.

     The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: A 
ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
100 indicates a loss.  When the investment income that an insurer 
earns from holding on to policyholders’ funds (“the float”) is 
taken into account, a combined ratio in the 107-111 range 
typically produces an overall break-even result, exclusive of 
earnings on the funds provided by shareholders.

     For the reasons laid out in previous reports, we expect the 
industry’s incurred losses to grow by about 10% annually, even in 