---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2011
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2011ar/2011ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 387 - 1651
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
The per-share book value of both our Class A and Class B stock increased by 4.6% in 2011. Over the
last 47 years (that is, since present management took over), book value has grown from $19 to $99,860, a rate of
19.8% compounded annually.*
Charlie Munger, Berkshire’s Vice Chairman and my partner, and I feel good about the company’s
progress during 2011. Here are the highlights:
•

The primary job of a Board of Directors is to see that the right people are running the business and to
be sure that the next generation of leaders is identified and ready to take over tomorrow. I have been on
19 corporate boards, and Berkshire’s directors are at the top of the list in the time and diligence they
have devoted to succession planning. What’s more, their efforts have paid off.
As 2011 started, Todd Combs joined us as an investment manager, and shortly after yearend Ted
Weschler came aboard. Both of these men have outstanding investment skills and a deep commitment
to Berkshire. Each will be handling a few billion dollars in 2012, but they have the brains, judgment
and character to manage our entire portfolio when Charlie and I are no longer running Berkshire.
Your Board is equally enthusiastic about my successor as CEO, an individual to whom they have had a
great deal of exposure and whose managerial and human qualities they admire. (We have two superb
back-up candidates as well.) When a transfer of responsibility is required, it will be seamless, and
Berkshire’s prospects will remain bright. More than 98% of my net worth is in Berkshire stock, all of
which will go to various philanthropies. Being so heavily concentrated in one stock defies conventional
wisdom. But I’m fine with this arrangement, knowing both the quality and diversity of the businesses
we own and the caliber of the people who manage them. With these assets, my successor will enjoy a
running start. Do not, however, infer from this discussion that Charlie and I are going anywhere; we
continue to be in excellent health, and we love what we do.

•

On September 16th we acquired Lubrizol, a worldwide producer of additives and other specialty
chemicals. The company has had an outstanding record since James Hambrick became CEO in 2004,
with pre-tax profits increasing from $147 million to $1,085 million. Lubrizol will have many
opportunities for “bolt-on” acquisitions in the specialty chemical field. Indeed, we’ve already agreed to
three, costing $493 million. James is a disciplined buyer and a superb operator. Charlie and I are eager
to expand his managerial domain.

•

Our major businesses did well last year. In fact, each of our five largest non-insurance companies – BNSF,
Iscar, Lubrizol, Marmon Group and MidAmerican Energy – delivered record operating earnings. In
aggregate these businesses earned more than $9 billion pre-tax in 2011. Contrast that to seven years ago,
when we owned only one of the five, MidAmerican, whose pre-tax earnings were $393 million. Unless the
economy weakens in 2012, each of our fabulous five should again set a record, with aggregate earnings
comfortably topping $10 billion.

* All per-share figures used in this report apply to Berkshire’s A shares. Figures for the B shares are
1/1500th of those shown for A.
3

•

In total, our entire string of operating companies spent $8.2 billion for property, plant and equipment in
2011, smashing our previous record by more than $2 billion. About 95% of these outlays were made in
the U.S., a fact that may surprise those who believe our country lacks investment opportunities. We
welcome projects abroad, but expect the overwhelming majority of Berkshire’s future capital
commitments to be in America. In 2012, these expenditures will again set a record.

•

Our insurance operations continued their delivery of costless capital that funds a myriad of other
opportunities. This business produces “float” – money that doesn’t belong to us, but that we get to
invest for Berkshire’s benefit. And if we pay out less in losses and expenses than we receive in
premiums, we additionally earn an underwriting profit, meaning the float costs us less than nothing.
Though we are sure to have underwriting losses from time to time, we’ve now had nine consecutive
years of underwriting profits, totaling about $17 billion. Over the same nine years our float increased
from $41 billion to its current record of $70 billion. Insurance has been good to us.

•

Finally, we made two major investments in marketable securities: (1) a $5 billion 6% preferred stock of
Bank of America that came with warrants allowing us to buy 700 million common shares at $7.14 per
share any time before September 2, 2021; and (2) 63.9 million shares of IBM that cost us $10.9 billion.
Counting IBM, we now have large ownership interests in four exceptional companies: 13.0% of
American Express, 8.8% of Coca-Cola, 5.5% of IBM and 7.6% of Wells Fargo. (We also, of course,
have many smaller, but important, positions.)
We view these holdings as partnership interests in wonderful businesses, not as marketable securities to
be bought or sold based on their near-term prospects. Our share of their earnings, however, are far from
fully reflected in our earnings; only the dividends we receive from these businesses show up in our
financial reports. Over time, though, the undistributed earnings of these companies that are attributable
to our ownership are of huge importance to us. That’s because they will be used in a variety of ways to
increase future earnings and dividends of the investee. They may also be devoted to stock repurchases,
which will increase our share of the company’s future earnings.
Had we owned our present positions throughout last year, our dividends from the “Big Four” would
have been $862 million. That’s all that would have been reported in Berkshire’s income statement. Our
share of this quartet’s earnings, however, would have been far greater: $3.3 billion. Charlie and I
believe that the $2.4 billion that goes unreported on our books creates at least that amount of value for
Berkshire as it fuels earnings gains in future years. We expect the combined earnings of the four – and
their dividends as well – to increase in 2012 and, for that matter, almost every year for a long time to
come. A decade from now, our current holdings of the four companies might well account for earnings
of $7 billion, of which $2 billion in dividends would come to us.
I’ve run out of good news. Here are some developments that hurt us during 2011:

•

A few years back, I spent about $2 billion buying several bond issues of Energy Future Holdings, an
electric utility operation serving portions of Texas. That was a mistake – a big mistake. In large measure,
the company’s prospects were tied to the price of natural gas, which tanked shortly after our purchase and
remains depressed. Though we have annually received interest payments of about $102 million since our
purchase, the company’s ability to pay will soon be exhausted unless gas prices rise substantially. We
wrote down our investment by $1 billion in 2010 and by an additional $390 million last year.
At yearend, we carried the bonds at their market value of $878 million. If gas prices remain at present
levels, we will likely face a further loss, perhaps in an amount that will virtually wipe out our current
carrying value. Conversely, a substantial increase in gas prices might allow us to recoup some, or even
all, of our write-down. However things turn out, I totally miscalculated the gain/loss probabilities when
I purchased the bonds. In tennis parlance, this was a major unforced error by your chairman.

4

•

Three large and very attractive fixed-income investments were called away from us by their issuers in
2011. Swiss Re, Goldman Sachs and General Electric paid us an aggregate of $12.8 billion to redeem
securities that were producing about $1.2 billion of pre-tax earnings for Berkshire. That’s a lot of
income to replace, though our Lubrizol purchase did offset most of it.

•

Last year, I told you that “a housing recovery will probably begin within a year or so.” I was dead
wrong. We have five businesses whose results are significantly influenced by housing activity. The
connection is direct at Clayton Homes, which is the largest producer of homes in the country,
accounting for about 7% of those constructed during 2011.
Additionally, Acme Brick, Shaw (carpet), Johns Manville (insulation) and MiTek (building products,
primarily connector plates used in roofing) are all materially affected by construction activity. In
aggregate, our five housing-related companies had pre-tax profits of $513 million in 2011. That’s
similar to 2010 but down from $1.8 billion in 2006.
Housing will come back – you can be sure of that. Over time, the number of housing units necessarily
matches the number of households (after allowing for a normal level of vacancies). For a period of