this environment, “financial” buyers of businesses  those who wish to buy using only a sliver of equity 
became unable to borrow all they thought they needed. What they could still borrow, moreover, came at a high
price. Consequently, LBO operators became less aggressive in their bidding when businesses came up for sale last
year. Because we analyze purchases on an all-equity basis, our evaluations did not change, which means we
became considerably more competitive.
Aside from the economic factors that benefited us, we now enjoy a major and growing advantage in
making acquisitions in that we are often the buyer of choice for the seller. That fact, of course, doesn’t assure a
deal  sellers have to like our price, and we have to like their business and management  but it does help.
We find it meaningful when an owner cares about whom he sells to. We like to do business with someone
who loves his company, not just the money that a sale will bring him (though we certainly understand why he likes
that as well). When this emotional attachment exists, it signals that important qualities will likely be found within
the business: honest accounting, pride of product, respect for customers, and a loyal group of associates having a
strong sense of direction. The reverse is apt to be true, also. When an owner auctions off his business, exhibiting a
total lack of interest in what follows, you will frequently find that it has been dressed up for sale, particularly when
the seller is a “financial owner.” And if owners behave with little regard for their business and its people, their
conduct will often contaminate attitudes and practices throughout the company.
When a business masterpiece has been created by a lifetime — or several lifetimes — of unstinting care
and exceptional talent, it should be important to the owner what corporation is entrusted to carry on its history.
Charlie and I believe Berkshire provides an almost unique home. We take our obligations to the people who
created a business very seriously, and Berkshire’s ownership structure ensures that we can fulfill our promises.
When we tell John Justin that his business will remain headquartered in Fort Worth, or assure the Bridge family
that its operation will not be merged with another jeweler, these sellers can take those promises to the bank.
How much better it is for the “painter” of a business Rembrandt to personally select its permanent home
than to have a trust officer or uninterested heirs auction it off. Throughout the years we have had great experiences
with those who recognize that truth and apply it to their business creations. We’ll leave the auctions to others.

7

The Economics of Property/Casualty Insurance
Our main business — though we have others of great importance — is insurance. To understand
Berkshire, therefore, it is necessary that you understand how to evaluate an insurance company. The key
determinants are: (1) the amount of float that the business generates; (2) its cost; and (3) most critical of all, the
long-term outlook for both of these factors.
To begin with, float is money we hold but don't own. In an insurance operation, float arises because
premiums are received before losses are paid, an interval that sometimes extends over many years. During that
time, the insurer invests the money. This pleasant activity typically carries with it a downside: The premiums that
an insurer takes in usually do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually must pay. That leaves it running an
"underwriting loss," which is the cost of float. An insurance business has value if its cost of float over time is less
than the cost the company would otherwise incur to obtain funds. But the business is a lemon if its cost of float is
higher than market rates for money.
A caution is appropriate here: Because loss costs must be estimated, insurers have enormous latitude in
figuring their underwriting results, and that makes it very difficult for investors to calculate a company's true cost
of float. Errors of estimation, usually innocent but sometimes not, can be huge. The consequences of these
miscalculations flow directly into earnings. An experienced observer can usually detect large-scale errors in
reserving, but the general public can typically do no more than accept what's presented, and at times I have been
amazed by the numbers that big-name auditors have implicitly blessed. Both the income statements and balance
sheets of insurers can be minefields.
At Berkshire, we strive to be both consistent and conservative in our reserving. But we will make
mistakes. And we warn you that there is nothing symmetrical about surprises in the insurance business: They
almost always are unpleasant.
The table that follows shows (at intervals) the float generated by the various segments of Berkshire’s
insurance operations since we entered the business 34 years ago upon acquiring National Indemnity Company
(whose traditional lines are included in the segment “Other Primary”). For the table we have calculated our float
— which we generate in large amounts relative to our premium volume — by adding net loss reserves, loss
adjustment reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and unearned premium reserves, and then subtracting
insurance-related receivables, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid taxes and deferred charges applicable to assumed
reinsurance. (Don’t panic, there won’t be a quiz.)
Yearend Float (in $ millions)
Year
1967
1977
1987
1997
1998
1999
2000

GEICO

2,917
3,125
3,444
3,943

General Re

Other
Reinsurance

14,909
15,166
15,525

40
701
4,014
4,305
6,285
7,805

Other
Primary
20
131
807
455
415
403
598

Total
20
171
1,508
7,386
22,754
25,298
27,871

We’re pleased by the growth in our float during 2000 but not happy with its cost. Over the years, our cost
of float has been very close to zero, with the underwriting profits realized in most years offsetting the occasional
terrible year such as 1984, when our cost was a staggering 19%. In 2000, however, we had an underwriting loss of
$1.6 billion, which gave us a float cost of 6%. Absent a mega-catastrophe, we expect our float cost to fall in 2001
 perhaps substantially  in large part because of corrections in pricing at General Re that should increasingly be
felt as the year progresses. On a smaller scale, GEICO may experience the same improving trend.
There are two factors affecting our cost of float that are very rare at other insurers but that now loom large
at Berkshire. First, a few insurers that are currently experiencing large losses have offloaded a significant portion of

8

these on us in a manner that penalizes our current earnings but gives us float we can use for many years to come.
After the loss that we incur in the first year of the policy, there are no further costs attached to this business.
When these policies are properly priced, we welcome the pain-today, gain-tomorrow effects they have. In
1999, $400 million of our underwriting loss (about 27.8% of the total) came from business of this kind and in 2000
the figure was $482 million (34.4% of our loss). We have no way of predicting how much similar business we will
write in the future, but what we do get will typically be in large chunks. Because these transactions can materially
distort our figures, we will tell you about them as they occur.
Other reinsurers have little taste for this insurance. They simply can’t stomach what huge underwriting
losses do to their reported results, even though these losses are produced by policies whose overall economics are
certain to be favorable. You should be careful, therefore, in comparing our underwriting results with those of other
insurers.
An even more significant item in our numbers — which, again, you won’t find much of elsewhere —
arises from transactions in which we assume past losses of a company that wants to put its troubles behind it. To
illustrate, the XYZ insurance company might have last year bought a policy obligating us to pay the first $1 billion
of losses and loss adjustment expenses from events that happened in, say, 1995 and earlier years. These contracts
can be very large, though we always require a cap on our exposure. We entered into a number of such transactions
in 2000 and expect to close several more in 2001.
Under GAAP accounting, this “retroactive” insurance neither benefits nor penalizes our current earnings.
Instead, we set up an asset called “deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance,” in an amount reflecting
the difference between the premium we receive and the (higher) losses we expect to pay (for which reserves are
immediately established). We then amortize this asset by making annual charges to earnings that create equivalent
underwriting losses. You will find the amount of the loss that we incur from these transactions in both our
quarterly and annual management discussion. By their nature, these losses will continue for many years, often
stretching into decades. As an offset, though, we have the use of float  lots of it.