after both prospective loss costs and operating expenses are covered; and (4) be willing to walk away if the
appropriate premium can’t be obtained.
Many insurers pass the first three tests and flunk the fourth. They simply can’t turn their back on business
that their competitors are eagerly writing. That old line, “The other guy is doing it so we must as well,” spells
trouble in any business, but in none more so than insurance. Indeed, a good underwriter needs an independent
mindset akin to that of the senior citizen who received a call from his wife while driving home. “Albert, be careful,”
she warned, “I just heard on the radio that there’s a car going the wrong way down the Interstate.” “Mabel, they
don’t know the half of it,” replied Albert, “It’s not just one car, there are hundreds of them.”
Tad has observed all four of the insurance commandments, and it shows in his results. General Re’s
huge float has been better than cost-free under his leadership, and we expect that, on average, it will continue to
be. In the first few years after we acquired it, General Re was a major headache. Now it’s a treasure.
************
Finally, there is GEICO, the insurer on which I cut my teeth 61 years ago. GEICO is run by Tony
Nicely, who joined the company at 18 and completed 50 years of service in 2011.
GEICO’s much-envied record comes from Tony’s brilliant execution of a superb and almostimpossible-to-replicate business model. During Tony’s 18-year tenure as CEO, our market share has grown from 2.0%
to 9.3%. If it had instead remained static – as it had for more than a decade before he took over – our premium volume
would now be $3.3 billion rather than the $15.4 billion we attained in 2011. The extra value created by Tony and his
associates is a major element in Berkshire’s excess of intrinsic value over book value.
There is still more than 90% of the auto-insurance market left for GEICO to rake in. Don’t bet against
Tony acquiring chunks of it year after year in the future. Our low costs permit low prices, and every day more
Americans discover that the Gecko is doing them a favor when he urges them to visit GEICO.com for a quote.
(Our lizard has another endearing quality: Unlike human spokesmen or spokeswomen who expensively represent
other insurance companies, our little fellow has no agent.)
************
In addition to our three major insurance operations, we own a group of smaller companies, most of
them plying their trade in odd corners of the insurance world. In aggregate, their results have consistently been
profitable and the float they provide us is substantial. Charlie and I treasure these companies and their managers.
9

At yearend, we acquired Princeton Insurance, a New Jersey writer of medical malpractice policies. This
bolt-on transaction expands the managerial domain of Tim Kenesey, the star CEO of Medical Protective, our
Indiana-based med-mal insurer. Princeton brings with it more than $600 million of float, an amount that is
included in the following table.
Here is the record of all four segments of our property-casualty and life insurance businesses:

Insurance Operations

Underwriting Profit
Yearend Float
(in millions)
2011
2010
2011
2010

BH Reinsurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
GEICO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Primary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$(714)
144
576
242

$ 176
452
1,117
268

$33,728
19,714
11,169
5,960

$30,370
20,049
10,272
5,141

$ 248

$2,013

$70,571

$65,832

Among large insurance operations, Berkshire’s impresses me as the best in the world.
Regulated, Capital-Intensive Businesses
We have two very large businesses, BNSF and MidAmerican Energy, that have important common
characteristics distinguishing them from our many other businesses. Consequently, we assign them their own sector
in this letter and also split out their combined financial statistics in our GAAP balance sheet and income statement.
A key characteristic of both companies is the huge investment they have in very long-lived, regulated
assets, with these partially funded by large amounts of long-term debt that is not guaranteed by Berkshire. Our
credit is not needed: Both businesses have earning power that even under terrible business conditions amply
covers their interest requirements. In a less than robust economy during 2011, for example, BNSF’s interest
coverage was 9.5x. At MidAmerican, meanwhile, two key factors ensure its ability to service debt under all
circumstances: The stability of earnings that is inherent in our exclusively offering an essential service and a
diversity of earnings streams, which shield it from the actions of any single regulatory body.
Measured by ton-miles, rail moves 42% of America’s inter-city freight, and BNSF moves more than
any other railroad – about 37% of the industry total. A little math will tell you that about 15% of all inter-city
ton-miles of freight in the U.S. is transported by BNSF. It is no exaggeration to characterize railroads as the
circulatory system of our economy. Your railroad is the largest artery.
All of this places a huge responsibility on us. We must, without fail, maintain and improve our 23,000
miles of track along with 13,000 bridges, 80 tunnels, 6,900 locomotives and 78,600 freight cars. This job requires
us to have ample financial resources under all economic scenarios and to have the human talent that can instantly
and effectively deal with the vicissitudes of nature, such as the widespread flooding BNSF labored under last
summer.
To fulfill its societal obligation, BNSF regularly invests far more than its depreciation charge, with the
excess amounting to $1.8 billion in 2011. The three other major U.S. railroads are making similar outlays.
Though many people decry our country’s inadequate infrastructure spending, that criticism cannot be levied
against the railroad industry. It is pouring money – funds from the private sector – into the investment projects
needed to provide better and more extensive service in the future. If railroads were not making these huge
expenditures, our country’s publicly-financed highway system would face even greater congestion and
maintenance problems than exist today.
Massive investments of the sort that BNSF is making would be foolish if it could not earn appropriate
returns on the incremental sums it commits. But I am confident it will do so because of the value it delivers.
Many years ago Ben Franklin counseled, “Keep thy shop, and thy shop will keep thee.” Translating this to our
regulated businesses, he might today say, “Take care of your customer, and the regulator – your customer’s
representative – will take care of you.” Good behavior by each party begets good behavior in return.
10

At MidAmerican, we participate in a similar “social compact.” We are expected to put up ever-increasing
sums to satisfy the future needs of our customers. If we meanwhile operate reliably and efficiently,
we know that we will obtain a fair return on these investments.
MidAmerican, 89.8% owned by Berkshire, supplies 2.5 million customers in the U.S. with electricity,
operating as the largest supplier in Iowa, Utah and Wyoming and as an important provider in six other states as
well. Our pipelines transport 8% of the country’s natural gas. Obviously, many millions of Americans depend on
us every day. They haven’t been disappointed.
When MidAmerican purchased Northern Natural Gas pipeline in 2002, that company’s performance as
a pipeline was rated dead last, 43 out of 43, by the leading authority in the field. In the most recent report,
Northern Natural was ranked second. The top spot was held by our other pipeline, Kern River.
In its electric business, MidAmerican has a comparable record. In the most recent survey of customer
satisfaction, MidAmerican’s U.S. utilities ranked second among 60 utility groups surveyed. The story was far
different not many years back when MidAmerican acquired these properties.
MidAmerican will have 3,316 megawatts of wind generation in operation by the end of 2012, far more
than any other regulated electric utility in the country. The total amount that we have invested or committed to
wind is a staggering $6 billion. We can make this sort of investment because MidAmerican retains all of its
earnings, unlike other utilities that generally pay out most of what they earn. In addition, late last year we took on
two solar projects – one 100%-owned in California and the other 49%-owned in Arizona – that will cost about $3
billion to construct. Many more wind and solar projects will almost certainly follow.
As you can tell by now, I am proud of what has been accomplished for our society by Matt Rose at
BNSF and by Greg Abel at MidAmerican. I am also both proud and grateful for what they have accomplished for