executive sadly, &quot;When we started, we were getting 100% of our earnings from the original business.  After ten years, we were
getting 150%.&quot;

Helzberg's Diamond Shops

     A few years back, management consultants popularized a technique called &quot;management by walking around&quot; (MBWA).  At
Berkshire, we've instituted ABWA (acquisitions by walking around).

     In May 1994, a week or so after the Annual Meeting, I was crossing the street at 58th and Fifth Avenue in New York,
when a woman called out my name.  I listened as she told me she'd been to, and had enjoyed, the Annual Meeting.  A few
seconds later, a man who'd heard the woman stop me did so as well.  He turned out to be Barnett Helzberg, Jr., who owned
four shares of Berkshire and had also been at our meeting.

     In our few minutes of conversation, Barnett said he had a business we might be interested in.  When people say that, it
usually turns out they have a lemonade stand   with potential, of course, to quickly grow into the next Microsoft.  So I simply
asked Barnett to send me particulars.  That, I thought to myself. will be the end of that.

     Not long after, Barnett sent me the financial statements of Helzberg's Diamond Shops.  The company had been started by
his grandfather in 1915 from a single store in Kansas City and had developed by the time we met into a group with 134 stores
in 23 states.  Sales had grown from $10 million in 1974 to $53 million in 1984 and $282 million in 1994.  We weren't talking
lemonade stands.

     Barnett, then 60, loved the business but also wanted to feel free of it.  In 1988, as a step in that direction, he had brought
in Jeff Comment, formerly President of Wanamaker's, to help him run things.  The hiring of Jeff turned out to be a homerun,
but Barnett still found that he couldn't shake a feeling of ultimate responsibility.  Additionally, he owned a valuable asset that
was subject to the vagaries of a single, very competitive industry, and he thought it prudent to diversify his family's holdings.

     Berkshire was made to order for him.  It took us awhile to get together on price, but there was never any question in my
mind that, first, Helzberg's was the kind of business that we wanted to own and, second, Jeff was our kind of manager.  In
fact, we would not have bought the business if Jeff had not been there to run it.  Buying a retailer without good management
is like buying the Eiffel Tower without an elevator.

     We completed the Helzberg purchase in 1995 by means of a tax-free exchange of stock, the only kind of transaction that
interested Barnett.  Though he was certainly under no obligation to do so, Barnett shared a meaningful part of his proceeds from the sale with a large number of his associates.  When someone behaves that generously,
you know you are going to be treated right as a buyer.

     The average Helzberg's store has annual sales of about $2 million, far more than competitors operating similarly-sized stores
achieve.  This superior per-store productivity is the key to Helzberg's excellent profits.  If the company continues its first-rate
performance   and we believe it will   it could grow rather quickly to several times its present size.

     Helzberg's, it should be added, is an entirely different sort of operation from Borsheim's, our Omaha jewelry business, and
the two companies will operate independently of each other.  Borsheim's had an excellent year in 1995, with sales up 11.7%. 
Susan Jacques, its 36-year-old CEO, had an even better year, giving birth to her second son at the start of the Christmas
season.  Susan has proved to be a terrific leader in the two years since her promotion.

R.C. Willey Home Furnishings  

     It was Nebraska Furniture Mart's Irv Blumkin who did the walking around in the case of R.C. Willey, long the leading
home furnishings business in Utah.  Over the years, Irv had told me about the strengths of that company.  And he had also
told Bill Child, CEO of R.C. Willey, how pleased the Blumkin family had been with its Berkshire relationship.  So in early
1995, Bill mentioned to Irv that for estate tax and diversification reasons, he and the other owners of R.C. Willey might be
interested in selling.

     From that point forward, things could not have been simpler.  Bill sent me some figures, and I wrote him a letter indicating
my idea of value.  We quickly agreed on a number, and found our personal chemistry to be perfect.  By mid-year, the merger
was completed.

     R.C. Willey is an amazing story.  Bill took over the business from his father-in-law in 1954 when sales were about
$250,000.  From this tiny base, Bill employed Mae West's philosophy:  &quot;It's not what you've got   it's what you do with what
you've got.&quot;  Aided by his brother, Sheldon, Bill has built the company to its 1995 sales volume of $257 million, and it now
accounts for over 50% of the furniture business in Utah.  Like Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey sells appliances,
electronics, computers and carpets in addition to furniture.  Both companies have about the same sales volume, but NFM gets
all of its business from one complex in Omaha, whereas R.C. Willey will open its sixth major store in the next few months.

     Retailing is a tough business.  During my investment career, I have watched a large number of retailers enjoy terrific
growth and superb returns on equity for a period, and then suddenly nosedive, often all the way into bankruptcy.  This shooting-
star phenomenon is far more common in retailing than it is in manufacturing or service businesses.  In part, this is because a
retailer must stay smart, day after day.  Your competitor is always copying and then topping whatever you do.  Shoppers are
meanwhile beckoned in every conceivable way to try a stream of new merchants.  In retailing, to coast is to fail.

     In contrast to this have-to-be-smart-every-day business, there is what I call the have-to-be-smart-once business.  For example,
if you were smart enough to buy a network TV station very early in the game, you could put in a shiftless and backward nephew
to run things, and the business would still do well for decades.  You'd do far better, of course, if you put in Tom Murphy, but
you could stay comfortably in the black without him.  For a retailer, hiring that nephew would be an express ticket to bankruptcy.

     The two retailing businesses we purchased this year are blessed with terrific managers who love to compete and have done
so successfully for decades.  Like the CEOs of our other operating units, they will operate autonomously:  We want them to feel
that the businesses they run are theirs.  This means no second-guessing by Charlie and me.  We avoid the attitude of the
alumnus whose message to the football coach is &quot;I'm 100% with you   win or tie.&quot;  Our basic goal as an owner is to behave
with our managers as we like our owners to behave with us.

     As we add more operations, I'm sometimes asked how many people I can handle reporting to me.  My answer to that is
simple:  If I have one person reporting to me and he is a lemon, that's one too many, and if I have managers like those we
now have, the number can be almost unlimited.  We are lucky to have Bill and Sheldon associated with us, and we hope that
we can acquire other businesses that bring with them managers of similar caliber.

GEICO Corporation

     Right after yearend, we completed the purchase of 100% of GEICO, the seventh largest auto insurer in the United States,
with about 3.7 million cars insured.  I've had a 45-year association with GEICO, and though the story has been told before,
it's worth a short recap here.

     I attended Columbia University's business school in 1950-51, not because I cared about the degree it offered, but because
I wanted to study under Ben Graham, then teaching there.  The time I spent in Ben's classes was a personal high, and quickly
induced me to learn all I could about my hero.  I turned first to Who's Who in America, finding there, among other things, that
Ben was Chairman of Government Employees Insurance Company, to me an unknown company in an unfamiliar industry.

     A librarian next referred me to Best's Fire and Casualty insurance manual, where I learned that GEICO was based in
Washington, DC.  So on a Saturday in January, 1951, I took the train to Washington and headed for GEICO's downtown
headquarters.  To my dismay, the building was closed, but I pounded on the door until a custodian appeared.  I asked this
puzzled fellow if there was anyone in the office I could talk to, and he said he'd seen one man working on the sixth floor.

     And thus I met Lorimer Davidson, Assistant to the President, who was later to become CEO.  Though my only credentials