---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2024
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2024ar/2024ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 74 - 547
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
This letter comes to you as part of Berkshire’s annual report. As a public company, we
are required to periodically tell you many specific facts and figures.
“Report,” however, implies a greater responsibility. In addition to the mandated data, we
believe we owe you additional commentary about what you own and how we think. Our goal is
to communicate with you in a manner that we would wish you to use if our positions were
reversed – that is, if you were Berkshire’s CEO while I and my family were passive investors,
trusting you with our savings.
This approach leads us to an annual recitation of both good and bad developments at the
many businesses you indirectly own through your Berkshire shares. When discussing problems
at specific subsidiaries, we do, however, try to follow the advice Tom Murphy gave to me 60
years ago: “praise by name, criticize by category.”
Mistakes – Yes, We Make Them at Berkshire
Sometimes I’ve made mistakes in assessing the future economics of a business I’ve
purchased for Berkshire – each a case of capital allocation gone wrong. That happens with both
judgments about marketable equities – we view these as partial ownership of businesses – and
the 100% acquisitions of companies.
At other times, I’ve made mistakes when assessing the abilities or fidelity of the
managers Berkshire is hiring. The fidelity disappointments can hurt beyond their financial
impact, a pain that can approach that of a failed marriage.
A decent batting average in personnel decisions is all that can be hoped for. The cardinal
sin is delaying the correction of mistakes or what Charlie Munger called “thumb-sucking.”
Problems, he would tell me, cannot be wished away. They require action, however
uncomfortable that may be.
************
During the 2019-23 period, I have used the words “mistake” or “error” 16 times in my
letters to you. Many other huge companies have never used either word over that span. Amazon,
I should acknowledge, made some brutally candid observations in its 2021 letter. Elsewhere, it
has generally been happy talk and pictures.

1

I have also been a director of large public companies at which “mistake” or “wrong” were
forbidden words at board meetings or analyst calls. That taboo, implying managerial perfection,
always made me nervous (though, at times, there could be legal issues that make limited
discussion advisable. We live in a very litigious society.)
************
At 94, it won’t be long before Greg Abel replaces me as CEO and will be writing the
annual letters. Greg shares the Berkshire creed that a “report” is what a Berkshire CEO annually
owes to owners. And he also understands that if you start fooling your shareholders, you will
soon believe your own baloney and be fooling yourself as well.
Pete Liegl – One of a Kind
Let me pause to tell you the remarkable story of Pete Liegl, a man unknown to most
Berkshire shareholders but one who contributed many billions to their aggregate wealth. Pete
died in November, still working at 80.
I first heard of Forest River – the Indiana company Pete founded and managed – on
June 21, 2005. On that day I received a letter from an intermediary detailing relevant data about
the company, a recreational vehicle (“RV”) manufacturer. The writer said that Pete, the 100%
owner of Forest River, specifically wanted to sell to Berkshire. He also told me the price that Pete
expected to receive. I liked this no-nonsense approach.
I did some checking with RV dealers, liked what I learned and arranged a June 28th
meeting in Omaha. Pete brought along his wife, Sharon, and daughter, Lisa. When we met, Pete
assured me that he wanted to keep running the business but would feel more comfortable if he
could assure financial security for his family.
Pete next mentioned that he owned some real estate that was leased to Forest River and
had not been covered in the June 21 letter. Within a few minutes, we arrived at a price for those
assets as I expressed no need for appraisal by Berkshire but would simply accept his valuation.
Then we arrived at the other point that needed clarity. I asked Pete what his compensation
should be, adding that whatever he said, I would accept. (This, I should add, is not an approach I
recommend for general use.)
Pete paused as his wife, daughter and I leaned forward. Then he surprised us: “Well, I
looked at Berkshire’s proxy statement and I wouldn’t want to make more than my boss, so pay
me $100,000 per year.” After I picked myself off the floor, Pete added: “But we will earn X (he
named a number) this year, and I would like an annual bonus of 10% of any earnings above what
the company is now delivering.” I replied: “OK Pete, but if Forest River makes any significant
acquisitions we will make an appropriate adjustment for the additional capital thus employed.” I
didn’t define “appropriate” or “significant,” but those vague terms never caused a problem.

2

The four of us then went to dinner at Omaha’s Happy Hollow Club and lived happily
ever after. During the next 19 years, Pete shot the lights out. No competitor came close to his
performance.
************
Every company doesn’t have an easy-to-understand business and there are very few
owners or managers like Pete. And, of course, I expect to make my share of mistakes about the
businesses Berkshire buys and sometimes err in evaluating the sort of person with whom I’m
dealing.
But I’ve also had many pleasant surprises in both the potential of the business as well as
the ability and fidelity of the manager. And our experience is that a single winning decision can
make a breathtaking difference over time. (Think GEICO as a business decision, Ajit Jain as a
managerial decision and my luck in finding Charlie Munger as a one-of-a-kind partner, personal
advisor and steadfast friend.) Mistakes fade away; winners can forever blossom.
************
One further point in our CEO selections: I never look at where a candidate has gone to
school. Never!
Of course, there are great managers who attended the most famous schools. But there are
plenty such as Pete who may have benefitted by attending a less prestigious institution or even
by not bothering to finish school. Look at my friend, Bill Gates, who decided that it was far more
important to get underway in an exploding industry that would change the world than it was to
stick around for a parchment that he could hang on the wall. (Read his new book, Source Code.)
Not long ago, I met – by phone – Jessica Toonkel, whose step-grandfather, Ben Rosner,
long ago ran a business for Charlie and me. Ben was a retailing genius and, in preparing for this
report, I checked with Jessica to confirm Ben’s schooling, which I remembered as limited.
Jessica’s reply: “Ben never went past 6th grade.”
I was lucky enough to get an education at three fine universities. And I avidly believe in
lifelong learning. I’ve observed, however, that a very large portion of business talent is innate
with nature swamping nurture.
Pete Liegl was a natural.

3

Last Year’s Performance
In 2024, Berkshire did better than I expected though 53% of our 189 operating
businesses reported a decline in earnings. We were aided by a predictable large gain in
investment income as Treasury Bill yields improved and we substantially increased our holdings
of these highly-liquid short-term securities.
Our insurance business also delivered a major increase in earnings, led by the
performance of GEICO. In five years, Todd Combs has reshaped GEICO in a major way,
increasing efficiency and bringing underwriting practices up to date. GEICO was a long-held
gem that needed major repolishing, and Todd has worked tirelessly in getting the job done.
Though not yet complete, the 2024 improvement was spectacular.
In general, property-casualty (“P/C”) insurance pricing strengthened during 2024,
reflecting a major increase in damage from convective storms. Climate change may have been
announcing its arrival. However, no “monster” event occurred during 2024. Someday, any day, a
truly staggering insurance loss will occur – and there is no guarantee that there will be only one
per annum.
The P/C business is so central to Berkshire that it warrants a further discussion that
appears later in this letter.
Berkshire’s railroad and utility operations, our two largest businesses outside of
insurance, improved their aggregate earnings. Both, however, have much left to accomplish.
Late in the year we increased our ownership of the utility operation from about 92% to
100% at a cost of roughly $3.9 billion, of which $2.9 billion was paid in cash with a balance in
Berkshire “B” shares.
************
All told, we recorded operating earnings of $47.4 billion in 2024. We regularly – endlessly,
some readers may groan – emphasize this measure rather than the GAAP-mandated earnings that