The table that follows shows (at intervals) the float generated by the various segments of Berkshire’s
insurance operations since we entered the business 35 years ago upon acquiring National Indemnity Company
(whose traditional lines are included in the segment “Other Primary”). For the table we have calculated our float —
which we generate in large amounts relative to our premium volume — by adding net loss reserves, loss adjustment
reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and unearned premium reserves, and then subtracting insurancerelated receivables, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid taxes and deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance.
(Got that?)
Yearend Float (in $ millions)
Year
1967
1977
1987
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001

GEICO

2,917
3,125
3,444
3,943
4,251

General Re

14,909
15,166
15,525
19,310

Other
Reinsurance
40
701
4,014
4,305
6,285
7,805
11,262

Other
Primary
20
131
807
455
415
403
598
685

Total
20
171
1,508
7,386
22,754
25,298
27,871
35,508

Last year I told you that, barring a mega-catastrophe, our cost of float would probably drop from its 2000
level of 6%. I had in mind natural catastrophes when I said that, but instead we were hit by a man-made catastrophe
on September 11th – an event that delivered the insurance industry its largest loss in history. Our float cost therefore
came in at a staggering 12.8%. It was our worst year in float cost since 1984, and a result that to a significant
degree, as I will explain in the next section, we brought upon ourselves.
If no mega-catastrophe occurs, I – once again – expect the cost of our float to be low in the coming year.
We will indeed need a low cost, as will all insurers. Some years back, float costing, say, 4% was tolerable because
government bonds yielded twice as much, and stocks prospectively offered still loftier returns. Today, fat returns
are nowhere to be found (at least we can’t find them) and short-term funds earn less than 2%. Under these
conditions, each of our insurance operations, save one, must deliver an underwriting profit if it is to be judged a
good business. The exception is our retroactive reinsurance operation (a business we explained in last year’s annual
report), which has desirable economics even though it currently hits us with an annual underwriting loss of about
$425 million.
Principles of Insurance Underwriting
When property/casualty companies are judged by their cost of float, very few stack up as satisfactory
businesses. And interestingly – unlike the situation prevailing in many other industries – neither size nor brand
name determines an insurer’s profitability. Indeed, many of the biggest and best-known companies regularly
deliver mediocre results. What counts in this business is underwriting discipline. The winners are those that
unfailingly stick to three key principles:
1.

They accept only those risks that they are able to properly evaluate (staying within their circle of
competence) and that, after they have evaluated all relevant factors including remote loss
scenarios, carry the expectancy of profit. These insurers ignore market-share considerations and
are sanguine about losing business to competitors that are offering foolish prices or policy
conditions.

2.

They limit the business they accept in a manner that guarantees they will suffer no aggregation of
losses from a single event or from related events that will threaten their solvency. They
ceaselessly search for possible correlation among seemingly-unrelated risks.

7

3.

They avoid business involving moral risk: No matter what the rate, trying to write good contracts
with bad people doesn’t work. While most policyholders and clients are honorable and ethical,
doing business with the few exceptions is usually expensive, sometimes extraordinarily so.

The events of September 11th made it clear that our implementation of rules 1 and 2 at General Re had been
dangerously weak. In setting prices and also in evaluating aggregation risk, we had either overlooked or dismissed
the possibility of large-scale terrorism losses. That was a relevant underwriting factor, and we ignored it.
In pricing property coverages, for example, we had looked to the past and taken into account only costs we
might expect to incur from windstorm, fire, explosion and earthquake. But what will be the largest insured property
loss in history (after adding related business-interruption claims) originated from none of these forces. In short, all
of us in the industry made a fundamental underwriting mistake by focusing on experience, rather than exposure,
thereby assuming a huge terrorism risk for which we received no premium.
Experience, of course, is a highly useful starting point in underwriting most coverages. For example, it’s
important for insurers writing California earthquake policies to know how many quakes in the state during the past
century have registered 6.0 or greater on the Richter scale. This information will not tell you the exact probability
of a big quake next year, or where in the state it might happen. But the statistic has utility, particularly if you are
writing a huge statewide policy, as National Indemnity has done in recent years.
At certain times, however, using experience as a guide to pricing is not only useless, but actually
dangerous. Late in a bull market, for example, large losses from directors and officers liability insurance (“D&O”)
are likely to be relatively rare. When stocks are rising, there are a scarcity of targets to sue, and both questionable
accounting and management chicanery often go undetected. At that juncture, experience on high-limit D&O may
look great.
But that’s just when exposure is likely to be exploding, by way of ridiculous public offerings, earnings
manipulation, chain-letter-like stock promotions and a potpourri of other unsavory activities. When stocks fall,
these sins surface, hammering investors with losses that can run into the hundreds of billions. Juries deciding
whether those losses should be borne by small investors or big insurance companies can be expected to hit insurers
with verdicts that bear little relation to those delivered in bull-market days. Even one jumbo judgment, moreover,
can cause settlement costs in later cases to mushroom. Consequently, the correct rate for D&O “excess” (meaning
the insurer or reinsurer will pay losses above a high threshold) might well, if based on exposure, be five or more
times the premium dictated by experience.
Insurers have always found it costly to ignore new exposures. Doing that in the case of terrorism,
however, could literally bankrupt the industry. No one knows the probability of a nuclear detonation in a major
metropolis this year (or even multiple detonations, given that a terrorist organization able to construct one bomb
might not stop there). Nor can anyone, with assurance, assess the probability in this year, or another, of deadly
biological or chemical agents being introduced simultaneously (say, through ventilation systems) into multiple
office buildings and manufacturing plants. An attack like that would produce astronomical workers’ compensation
claims.
Here’s what we do know:
(a)

The probability of such mind-boggling disasters, though likely very low at present, is not zero.

(b)

The probabilities are increasing, in an irregular and immeasurable manner, as knowledge and
materials become available to those who wish us ill. Fear may recede with time, but the danger
won’t – the war against terrorism can never be won. The best the nation can achieve is a long
succession of stalemates. There can be no checkmate against hydra-headed foes.

(c)

Until now, insurers and reinsurers have blithely assumed the financial consequences from the
incalculable risks I have described.

(d)

Under a “close-to-worst-case” scenario, which could conceivably involve $1 trillion of damage,
the insurance industry would be destroyed unless it manages in some manner to dramatically limit
its assumption of terrorism risks. Only the U.S. Government has the resources to absorb such a
blow. If it is unwilling to do so on a prospective basis, the general citizenry must bear its own
risks and count on the Government to come to its rescue after a disaster occurs.

8

Why, you might ask, didn’t I recognize the above facts before September 11th? The answer, sadly, is that I
did – but I didn’t convert thought into action. I violated the Noah rule: Predicting rain doesn’t count; building arks
does. I consequently let Berkshire operate with a dangerous level of risk – at General Re in particular. I’m sorry to
say that much risk for which we haven’t been compensated remains on our books, but it is running off by the day.
At Berkshire, it should be noted, we have for some years been willing to assume more risk than any other
insurer has knowingly taken on. That’s still the case. We are perfectly willing to lose $2 billion to $2½ billion in a
single event (as we did on September 11th) if we have been paid properly for assuming the risk that caused the loss
(which on that occasion we weren’t).
Indeed, we have a major competitive advantage because of our tolerance for huge losses. Berkshire has
massive liquid resources, substantial non-insurance earnings, a favorable tax position and a knowledgeable
shareholder constituency willing to accept volatility in earnings. This unique combination enables us to assume