1987 . .      55.43       1,266.7                 4.38%        8.95%
1988 . .      11.08       1,497.7                 0.74%        9.00%
1989 . .      24.40       1,541.3                 1.58%        7.97%
1990 . .      26.65       1,637.3                 1.63%        8.24%
1991 . .     119.59       1,895.0                 6.31%        7.40%
1992 . .     108.96       2,290.4                 4.76%        7.39%
1993 . .     profit       2,624.7        less than zero        6.35%
1994 . .     profit       3,056.6        less than zero        7.88%
1995 . .     profit       3,607.2        less than zero        5.95%

     Since 1967, when we entered the insurance business, our float has grown at an annual compounded
rate of 20.7%.  In more years than not, our cost of funds has been less than nothing.  This access to &quot;free&quot;
money has boosted Berkshire's performance in a major way.

     Any company's level of profitability is determined by three items:  (1) what its assets earn; (2) what its
liabilities cost; and (3) its utilization of &quot;leverage&quot;   that is, the degree to which its assets are funded by
liabilities rather than by equity.  Over the years, we have done well on Point 1, having produced high returns
on our assets.  But we have also benefitted greatly   to a degree that is not generally well-understood  
because our liabilities have cost us very little.  An important reason for this low cost is that we have obtained
float on very advantageous terms.  The same cannot be said by many other property and casualty insurers,
who may generate plenty of float, but at a cost that exceeds what the funds are worth to them.  In those
circumstances, leverage becomes a disadvantage.

     Since our float has cost us virtually nothing over the years, it has in effect served as equity.  Of course,
it differs from true equity in that it doesn't belong to us.  Nevertheless, let's assume that instead of our having
$3.4 billion of float at the end of 1994, we had replaced it with $3.4 billion of equity.  Under this scenario,
we would have owned no more assets than we did during 1995.  We would, however, have had somewhat
lower earnings because the cost of float was negative last year.  That is, our float threw off profits.  And, of
course, to obtain the replacement equity, we would have needed to sell many new shares of Berkshire.  The
net result   more shares, equal assets and lower earnings   would have materially reduced the value of our
stock.  So you can understand why float wonderfully benefits a business   if it is obtained at a low cost.

     Our acquisition of GEICO will immediately increase our float by nearly $3 billion, with additional growth
almost certain.  We also expect GEICO to operate at a decent underwriting profit in most years, a fact that
will increase the probability that our total float will cost us nothing.  Of course, we paid a very substantial
price for the GEICO float, whereas virtually all of the gains in float depicted in the table were developed
internally.

     Our enthusiasm over 1995's insurance results must be tempered once again because we had our third
straight year of good fortune in the super-cat business.  In this operation, we sell policies that insurance and
reinsurance companies buy to protect themselves from the effects of mega-catastrophes.  Since truly major
catastrophes occur infrequently, our super-cat business can be expected to show large profits in most years
but occasionally to record a huge loss.  In other words, the attractiveness of our super-cat business will take
many years to measure.  We know that the results of years like the past three will be at least partially offset
by some truly terrible year in the future.  We just hope that &quot;partially&quot; turns out to be the proper adverb.

     There were plenty of catastrophes last year, but no super-cats of the insured variety.  The Southeast
had a close call when Opal, sporting winds of 150 miles per hour, hovered off Florida.  However, the storm
abated before hitting land, and so a second Andrew was dodged.  For insurers, the Kobe earthquake was
another close call:  The economic damage was huge   perhaps even a record   but only a tiny portion of
it was insured.  The insurance industry won't always be that lucky.

     Ajit Jain is the guiding genius of our super-cat business and writes important non-cat business as well.
In insurance, the term &quot;catastrophe&quot; is applied to an event, such as a hurricane or earthquake, that causes
a great many insured losses. The other deals Ajit enters into usually cover only a single large loss. A
simplified description of three transactions from last year will illustrate both what I mean and Ajit's versatility.
We insured: (1) The life of Mike Tyson for a sum that is large initially and that, fight-by-fight, gradually
declines to zero over the next few years; (2) Lloyd's against more than 225 of its &quot;names&quot; dying during the
year; and (3) The launch, and a year of orbit, of two Chinese satellites. Happily, both satellites are orbiting,
the Lloyd's folk avoided abnormal mortality, and if Mike Tyson looked any healthier, no one would get in the
ring with him.

     Berkshire is sought out for many kinds of insurance, both super-cat and large single-risk, because: (1)
our financial strength is unmatched, and insureds know we can and will pay our losses under the most
adverse of circumstances; (2) we can supply a quote faster than anyone in the business; and (3) we will
issue policies with limits larger than anyone else is prepared to write.  Most of our competitors have extensive
reinsurance treaties and lay off much of their business.  While this helps them avoid shock losses, it also
hurts their flexibility and reaction time.  As you know, Berkshire moves quickly to seize investment and
acquisition opportunities; in insurance we respond with the same exceptional speed.  In another important
point, large coverages don't frighten us but, on the contrary, intensify our interest.  We have offered a policy
under which we could have lost $1 billion; the largest coverage that a client accepted was $400 million.

     We will get hit from time to time with large losses.  Charlie and I, however, are quite willing to accept
relatively volatile results in exchange for better long-term earnings than we would otherwise have had.  In
other words, we prefer a lumpy 15% to a smooth 12%.  Since most managers opt for smoothness, we are
left with a competitive advantage that we try to maximize.  We do, though, monitor our aggregate exposure
in order to keep our &quot;worst case&quot; at a level that leaves us comfortable.

     Indeed, our worst case from a &quot;once-in-a-century&quot; super-cat is far less severe   relative to net worth  
than that faced by many well-known primary companies writing great numbers of property policies.  These
insurers don't issue single huge-limit policies as we do, but their small policies, in aggregate, can create a
risk of staggering size.  The &quot;big one&quot; would blow right through the reinsurance covers of some of these
insurers, exposing them to uncapped losses that could threaten their survival.  In our case, losses would be
large, but capped at levels we could easily handle.

     Prices are weakening in the super-cat field.  That is understandable considering the influx of capital into
the reinsurance business a few years ago and the natural desire of those holding the capital to employ it. 
No matter what others may do, we will not knowingly write business at inadequate rates.  We unwittingly did
this in the early 1970's and, after more than 20 years, regularly receive significant bills stemming from the
mistakes of that era.  My guess is that we will still be getting surprises from that business 20 years from now. 
A bad reinsurance contract is like hell:  easy to enter and impossible to exit.

     I actively participated in those early reinsurance decisions, and Berkshire paid a heavy tuition for my
education in the business.  Unfortunately, reinsurance students can't attend school on scholarship.  GEICO,
incidentally, suffered a similar, disastrous experience in the early 1980's, when it plunged enthusiastically into
the writing of reinsurance and large risks.  GEICO's folly was brief, but it will be cleaning things up for at
least another decade.  The well-publicized problems at Lloyd's further illustrate the perils of reinsurance and
also underscore how vital it is that the interests of the people who write insurance business be aligned   on
the downside as well as the upside   with those of the people putting up the capital.  When that kind of
symmetry is missing, insurers almost invariably run into trouble, though its existence may remain hidden for
some time.

     A small, apocryphal story about an insurance CEO who was visited by an analyst tells a lot about this
industry.  To the analyst's questions about his business, the CEO had nothing but gloomy answers:  Rates
were ridiculously low; the reserves on his balance sheet weren't adequate for ordinary claims, much less
those likely to arise from asbestos and environmental problems; most of his reinsurers had long since gone
broke, leaving him holding the sack.  But then the CEO brightened:  &quot;Still, things could be a lot worse,&quot; he
said.  &quot;It could be my money.&quot;  At Berkshire, it's our money.