# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1994

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Our gain in net worth during 1994 was $1.45 billion or 13.9%.  
Over the last 30 years (that is, since present management took 
over) our per-share book value has grown from $19 to $10,083, or 
at a rate of 23% compounded annually.

     Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and my partner, 
and I make few predictions.  One we will confidently offer, 
however, is that the future performance of Berkshire won't come 
close to matching the performance of the past.

     The problem is not that what has worked in the past will 
cease to work in the future.  To the contrary, we believe that 
our formula - the purchase at sensible prices of businesses that 
have good underlying economics and are run by honest and able 
people - is certain to produce reasonable success.  We expect, 
therefore, to keep on doing well.

     A fat wallet, however, is the enemy of superior investment 
results.  And Berkshire now has a net worth of $11.9 billion 
compared to about $22 million when Charlie and I began to manage 
the company.  Though there are as many good businesses as ever, 
it is useless for us to make purchases that are inconsequential 
in relation to Berkshire's capital.  (As Charlie regularly 
reminds me, "If something is not worth doing at all, it's not 
worth doing well.")  We now consider a security for purchase only 
if we believe we can deploy at least $100 million in it.  Given 
that minimum, Berkshire's investment universe has shrunk 
dramatically.

     Nevertheless, we will stick with the approach that got us 
here and try not to relax our standards.  Ted Williams, in
The Story of My Life
, explains why:  "My argument is, to be 
a good hitter, you've got to get a good ball to hit.  It's the 
first rule in the book.  If I have to bite at stuff that is out 
of my happy zone, I'm not a .344 hitter.  I might only be a .250 
hitter."  Charlie and I agree and will try to wait for 
opportunities that are well within our own "happy zone."

     We will continue to ignore political and economic forecasts, 
which are an expensive distraction for many investors and 
businessmen.  Thirty years ago, no one could have foreseen the 
huge expansion of the Vietnam War, wage and price controls, two 
oil shocks, the resignation of a president, the dissolution of 
the Soviet Union, a one-day drop in the Dow of 508 points, or 
treasury bill yields fluctuating between 2.8% and 17.4%.

     But, surprise - none of these blockbuster events made the 
slightest dent in Ben Graham's investment principles.  Nor did 
they render unsound the negotiated purchases of fine businesses 
at sensible prices.  Imagine the cost to us, then, if we had let 
a fear of unknowns cause us to defer or alter the deployment of 
capital.  Indeed, we have usually made our best purchases when 
apprehensions about some macro event were at a peak.  Fear is the 
foe of the faddist, but the friend of the fundamentalist.

     A different set of major shocks is sure to occur in the next 
30 years.  We will neither try to predict these nor to profit 
from them.  If we can identify businesses similar to those we 
have purchased in the past, external surprises will have little 
effect on our long-term results.

     What we promise you - along with more modest gains - is that 
during your ownership of Berkshire, you will fare just as Charlie 
and I do.  If you suffer, we will suffer; if we prosper, so will 
you.  And we will not break this bond by introducing compensation 
arrangements that give us a greater participation in the upside 
than the downside.

     We further promise you that our personal fortunes will 
remain overwhelmingly concentrated in Berkshire shares:  We will 
not ask you to invest with us and then put our own money 
elsewhere.  In addition, Berkshire dominates both the investment 
portfolios of most members of our families and of a great many 
friends who belonged to partnerships that Charlie and I ran in 
the 1960's.  We could not be more motivated to do our best.

     Luckily, we have a good base from which to work.  Ten years 
ago, in 1984, Berkshire's insurance companies held securities 
having a value of $1.7 billion, or about $1,500 per Berkshire 
share.  Leaving aside all income and capital gains from those 
securities, Berkshire's pre-tax earnings that year were only 
about $6 million.  We had earnings, yes, from our various 
manufacturing, retailing and service businesses, but they were 
almost entirely offset by the combination of underwriting losses 
in our insurance business, corporate overhead and interest 
expense.

     Now we hold securities worth $18 billion, or over $15,000 
per Berkshire share.  If you again exclude all income from these 
securities, our pre-tax earnings in 1994 were about $384 million. 
During the decade, employment has grown from 5,000 to 22,000 
(including eleven people at World Headquarters).

     We achieved our gains through the efforts of a superb corps 
of operating managers who get extraordinary results from some 
ordinary-appearing businesses.  Casey Stengel described managing 
a baseball team as "getting paid for home runs other fellows 
hit."  That's my formula at Berkshire, also.

     The businesses in which we have partial interests are 
equally important to Berkshire's success.  A few statistics will 
illustrate their significance:  In 1994, Coca-Cola sold about 280 
billion 8-ounce servings and earned a little less than a penny on 
each.  But pennies add up.  Through Berkshire's 7.8% ownership of 
Coke, we have an economic interest in 21 billion of its servings, 
which produce "soft-drink earnings" for us of nearly $200 
million.  Similarly, by way of its Gillette stock, Berkshire has 
a 7% share of the world's razor and blade market (measured by 
revenues, not by units), a proportion according us about $250 
million of sales in 1994.  And, at Wells Fargo, a $53 billion 
bank, our 13% ownership translates into a $7 billion "Berkshire 
Bank" that earned about $100 million during 1994.

     It's far better to own a significant portion of the Hope 
diamond than 100% of a rhinestone, and the companies just 
mentioned easily qualify as rare gems.  Best of all, we aren't 
limited to simply a few of this breed, but instead possess a 
growing collection.

     Stock prices will continue to fluctuate - sometimes sharply 
- and the economy will have its ups and down.  Over time, 
however, we believe it highly probable that the sort of 
businesses we own will continue to increase in value at a 
satisfactory rate.
Book Value and Intrinsic Value
We regularly report our per-share book value, an easily 
calculable number, though one of limited use.  Just as regularly, 
we tell you that what counts is intrinsic value, a number that is 
impossible to pinpoint but essential to estimate.

     For example, in 1964, we could state with certitude that 
Berkshire's per-share book value was $19.46.  However, that 
figure considerably overstated the stock's intrinsic value since 
all of the company's resources were tied up in a sub-profitable 
textile business.  Our textile assets had neither going-concern 
nor liquidation values equal to their carrying values.  In 1964, 
then, anyone inquiring into the soundness of Berkshire's balance 
sheet might well have deserved the answer once offered up by a 
Hollywood mogul of dubious reputation:  "Don't worry, the 
liabilities are solid."

     Today, Berkshire's situation has reversed:  Many of the 
businesses we control are worth far more than their carrying 
value.  (Those we don't control, such as Coca-Cola or Gillette, 
are carried at current market values.)  We continue to give you 
book value figures, however, because they serve as a rough, 
albeit significantly understated, tracking measure for Berkshire's 
intrinsic value.  Last year, in fact, the two measures moved in 
concert:  Book value gained 13.9%, and that was the approximate 
gain in intrinsic value also.

     We define intrinsic value as the discounted value of the 
cash that can be taken out of a business during its remaining 
life.  Anyone calculating intrinsic value necessarily comes up 
with a highly subjective figure that will change both as 
estimates of future cash flows are revised and as interest rates 
move.  Despite its fuzziness, however, intrinsic value is all-
important and is the only logical way to evaluate the relative 
attractiveness of investments and businesses.

     To see how historical input (book value) and future output 
(intrinsic value) can diverge, let's look at another form of 
investment, a college education.  Think of the education's cost 
as its "book value."  If it is to be accurate, the cost should 
include the earnings that were foregone by the student because he 
chose college rather than a job.

     For this exercise, we will ignore the important non-economic 
benefits of an education and focus strictly on its economic 
value.  First, we must estimate the earnings that the graduate 
will receive over his lifetime and subtract from that figure an 
estimate of what he would have earned had he lacked his 