totally wiped out the book equity of its common stock.

     For much of this period, the company paid us our preferred 
dividends, but in 1994 payment was suspended.  A bit later, with the 
situation looking particularly gloomy, we wrote down our investment by 
75%, to $89.5 million.  Thereafter, during much of 1995, I offered to 
sell our shares at 50% of face value.  Fortunately, I was unsuccessful.

     Mixed in with my many mistakes at USAir was one thing I got right:  
Making our investment, we wrote into the preferred contract a somewhat 
unusual provision stipulating that "penalty dividends" - to run five 
percentage points over the prime rate - would be accrued on any 
arrearages.  This meant that when our 9.25% dividend was omitted for two 
years, the unpaid amounts compounded at rates ranging between 13.25% and 
14%.

     Facing this penalty provision, USAir had every incentive to pay 
arrearages just as promptly as it could.  And in the second half of 1996, 
when USAir turned profitable, it indeed began to pay, giving us $47.9 
million.  We owe Stephen Wolf, the company's CEO, a huge thank-you for 
extracting a performance from the airline that permitted this payment.  
Even so, USAir's performance has recently been helped significantly by an 
industry tailwind that may be cyclical in nature.  The company still has 
basic cost problems that must be solved.

     In any event, the prices of USAir's publicly-traded securities tell 
us that our preferred stock is now probably worth its par value of $358 
million, give or take a little.  In addition, we have over the years 
collected an aggregate of $240.5 million in dividends (including $30 
million received in 1997).

     Early in 1996, before any accrued dividends had been paid, I tried 
once more to unload our holdings - this time for about $335 million.  
You're lucky:  I again failed in my attempt to snatch defeat from the 
jaws of victory.

     In another context, a friend once asked me:  "If you're so rich, why 
aren't you smart?"  After reviewing my sorry performance with USAir, you 
may conclude he had a point.
Financings
We wrote four checks to Salomon Brothers last year and in each case 
were delighted with the work for which we were paying.  I've already 
described one transaction: the FlightSafety purchase in which Salomon was 
the initiating investment banker.  In a second deal, the firm placed a 
small debt offering for our finance subsidiary.

     Additionally, we made two good-sized offerings through Salomon, both 
with interesting aspects.  The first was our sale in May of 517,500 
shares of Class B Common, which generated net proceeds of $565 million.  
As I have told you before, we made this sale in response to the 
threatened creation of unit trusts that would have marketed themselves as 
Berkshire look-alikes.  In the process, they would have used our past, 
and definitely nonrepeatable, record to entice naive small investors and 
would have charged these innocents high fees and commissions.

     I think it would have been quite easy for such trusts to have sold 
many billions of dollars worth of units, and I also believe that early 
marketing successes by these trusts would have led to the formation of 
others.  (In the securities business, whatever can be sold will be sold.) 
The trusts would have meanwhile indiscriminately poured the proceeds of 
their offerings into a supply of Berkshire shares that is fixed and 
limited.  The likely result: a speculative bubble in our stock.  For at 
least a time, the price jump would have been self-validating, in that it 
would have pulled new waves of naive and impressionable investors into 
the trusts and set off still more buying of Berkshire shares.

     Some Berkshire shareholders choosing to exit might have found that 
outcome ideal, since they could have profited at the expense of the 
buyers entering with false hopes.  Continuing shareholders, however, 
would have suffered once reality set in, for at that point Berkshire 
would have been burdened with both hundreds of thousands of unhappy, 
indirect owners (trustholders, that is) and a stained reputation.

     Our issuance of the B shares not only arrested the sale of the 
trusts, but provided a low-cost way for people to invest in Berkshire if 
they still wished to after hearing the warnings we issued.  To blunt the 
enthusiasm that brokers normally have for pushing new issues - because 
that's where the money is - we arranged for our offering to carry a 
commission of only 1.5%, the lowest payoff that we have ever seen in a 
common stock underwriting.  Additionally, we made the amount of the 
offering open-ended, thereby repelling the typical IPO buyer who looks 
for a short-term price spurt arising from a combination of hype and 
scarcity.

     Overall, we tried to make sure that the B stock would be purchased 
only by investors with a long-term perspective.  Those efforts were 
generally successful:  Trading volume in the B shares immediately 
following the offering - a rough index of "flipping" - was far below the 
norm for a new issue.  In the end we added about 40,000 shareholders, 
most of whom we believe both understand what they own and share our time 
horizons.

     Salomon could not have performed better in the handling of this 
unusual transaction.  Its investment bankers understood perfectly what we 
were trying to achieve and tailored every aspect of the offering to meet 
these objectives.  The firm would have made far more money - perhaps ten 
times as much - if our offering had been standard in its make-up.  But 
the investment bankers involved made no attempt to tweak the specifics in 
that direction.  Instead they came up with ideas that were counter to 
Salomon's financial interest but that made it much more certain 
Berkshire's goals would be reached.  Terry Fitzgerald captained this 
effort, and we thank him for the job that he did.

     Given that background, it won't surprise you to learn that we again 
went to Terry when we decided late in the year to sell an issue of 
Berkshire notes that can be exchanged for a portion of the Salomon shares 
that we hold.  In this instance, once again, Salomon did an absolutely 
first-class job, selling $500 million principal amount of five-year notes 
for $447.1 million.  Each $1,000 note is exchangeable into 17.65 shares 
and is callable in three years at accreted value.  Counting the original 
issue discount and a 1% coupon, the securities will provide a yield of 3% 
to maturity for holders who do not exchange them for Salomon stock.  But 
it seems quite likely that the notes will be exchanged before their 
maturity.  If that happens, our interest cost will be about 1.1% for the 
period prior to exchange.

     In recent years, it has been written that Charlie and I are unhappy 
about all investment-banking fees.  That's dead wrong.  We have paid a 
great many fees over the last 30 years - beginning with the check we 
wrote to Charlie Heider upon our purchase of National Indemnity in 1967 - 
and we are delighted to make payments that are commensurate with 
performance.  In the case of the 1996 transactions at Salomon Brothers, 
we more than got our money's worth.
Miscellaneous
Though it was a close decision, Charlie and I have decided to enter 
the 20th Century.  Accordingly, we are going to put future quarterly and 
annual reports of Berkshire on the Internet, where they can be accessed 
via http://www.berkshirehathaway.com.  We will always "post" these 
reports on a Saturday so that anyone interested will have ample time to 
digest the information before trading begins.  Our publishing schedule 
for the next 12 months is May 17, 1997, August 16, 1997, November 15, 
1997, and March 14, 1998.  We will also post any press releases that we 
issue.

     At some point, we may stop mailing our quarterly reports and simply 
post these on the Internet.  This move would eliminate significant costs. 
Also, we have a large number of "street name" holders and have found 
that the distribution of our quarterlies to them is highly erratic:  Some 
holders receive their mailings weeks later than others.

     The drawback to Internet-only distribution is that many of our 
shareholders lack computers.  Most of these holders, however, could 
easily obtain printouts at work or through friends.  Please let me know 
if you prefer that we continue mailing quarterlies.  We want your input - 
starting with whether you even read these reports - and at a minimum will 
make no change in 1997.  Also, we will definitely keep delivering the 
annual report in its present form in addition to publishing it on the 
Internet.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
About 97.2% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 1996 
shareholder-designated contributions program.  Contributions made were 
$13.3 million, and 3,910 charities were recipients.  A full description 
of the shareholder-designated contributions program appears on pages 48-
49.

     Every year a few shareholders miss out on the program because they 
don't have their shares registered in their own names on the prescribed 