basis, are earning about 20% on the net tangible equity capital required to run their businesses. These companies, also,
earn their profits without employing excessive levels of debt.

12

Returns of that order by large, established and understandable businesses are remarkable under any
circumstances. They are truly mind-blowing when compared against the return that many investors have accepted on
bonds over the last decade – 3% or less on 30-year U.S. Treasury bonds, for example.
On occasion, a ridiculously-high purchase price for a given stock will cause a splendid business to become a
poor investment – if not permanently, at least for a painfully long period. Over time, however, investment performance
converges with business performance. And, as I will next spell out, the record of American business has been
extraordinary.
The American Tailwind
On March 11th, it will be 77 years since I first invested in an American business. The year was 1942, I was
11, and I went all in, investing $114.75 I had begun accumulating at age six. What I bought was three shares of Cities
Service preferred stock. I had become a capitalist, and it felt good.
Let’s now travel back through the two 77-year periods that preceded my purchase. That leaves us starting in
1788, a year prior to George Washington’s installation as our first president. Could anyone then have imagined what
their new country would accomplish in only three 77-year lifetimes?
During the two 77-year periods prior to 1942, the United States had grown from four million people – about

1⁄ 2 of 1% of the world’s population – into the most powerful country on earth. In that spring of 1942, though, it faced

a crisis: The U.S. and its allies were suffering heavy losses in a war that we had entered only three months earlier. Bad
news arrived daily.
Despite the alarming headlines, almost all Americans believed on that March 11th that the war would be
won. Nor was their optimism limited to that victory. Leaving aside congenital pessimists, Americans believed that
their children and generations beyond would live far better lives than they themselves had led.
The nation’s citizens understood, of course, that the road ahead would not be a smooth ride. It never had
been. Early in its history our country was tested by a Civil War that killed 4% of all American males and led President
Lincoln to openly ponder whether “a nation so conceived and so dedicated could long endure.” In the 1930s, America
suffered through the Great Depression, a punishing period of massive unemployment.
Nevertheless, in 1942, when I made my purchase, the nation expected post-war growth, a belief that proved
to be well-founded. In fact, the nation’s achievements can best be described as breathtaking.
Let’s put numbers to that claim: If my $114.75 had been invested in a no-fee S&P 500 index fund, and all
dividends had been reinvested, my stake would have grown to be worth (pre-taxes) $606,811 on January 31, 2019 (the
latest data available before the printing of this letter). That is a gain of 5,288 for 1. Meanwhile, a $1 million investment
by a tax-free institution of that time – say, a pension fund or college endowment – would have grown to about $5.3
billion.
Let me add one additional calculation that I believe will shock you: If that hypothetical institution had paid
only 1% of assets annually to various “helpers,” such as investment managers and consultants, its gain would have
been cut in half, to $2.65 billion. That’s what happens over 77 years when the 11.8% annual return actually achieved
by the S&P 500 is recalculated at a 10.8% rate.

13

Those who regularly preach doom because of government budget deficits (as I regularly did myself for many
years) might note that our country’s national debt has increased roughly 400-fold during the last of my 77-year periods.
That’s 40,000%! Suppose you had foreseen this increase and panicked at the prospect of runaway deficits and a
worthless currency. To “protect” yourself, you might have eschewed stocks and opted instead to buy 3 1⁄ 4 ounces of
gold with your $114.75.
And what would that supposed protection have delivered? You would now have an asset worth about $4,200,
less than 1% of what would have been realized from a simple unmanaged investment in American business. The
magical metal was no match for the American mettle.
Our country’s almost unbelievable prosperity has been gained in a bipartisan manner. Since 1942, we have
had seven Republican presidents and seven Democrats. In the years they served, the country contended at various times
with a long period of viral inflation, a 21% prime rate, several controversial and costly wars, the resignation of a
president, a pervasive collapse in home values, a paralyzing financial panic and a host of other problems. All
engendered scary headlines; all are now history.
Christopher Wren, architect of St. Paul’s Cathedral, lies buried within that London church. Near his tomb are
posted these words of description (translated from Latin): “If you would seek my monument, look around you.” Those
skeptical of America’s economic playbook should heed his message.
In 1788 – to go back to our starting point – there really wasn’t much here except for a small band of ambitious
people and an embryonic governing framework aimed at turning their dreams into reality. Today, the Federal Reserve
estimates our household wealth at $108 trillion, an amount almost impossible to comprehend.
Remember, earlier in this letter, how I described retained earnings as having been the key to Berkshire’s
prosperity? So it has been with America. In the nation’s accounting, the comparable item is labeled “savings.” And
save we have. If our forefathers had instead consumed all they produced, there would have been no investment, no
productivity gains and no leap in living standards.
************
Charlie and I happily acknowledge that much of Berkshire’s success has simply been a product of what I
think should be called The American Tailwind. It is beyond arrogance for American businesses or individuals to boast
that they have “done it alone.” The tidy rows of simple white crosses at Normandy should shame those who make
such claims.
There are also many other countries around the world that have bright futures. About that, we should rejoice:
Americans will be both more prosperous and safer if all nations thrive. At Berkshire, we hope to invest significant
sums across borders.
Over the next 77 years, however, the major source of our gains will almost certainly be provided by The
American Tailwind. We are lucky – gloriously lucky – to have that force at our back.

14

The Annual Meeting
Berkshire’s 2019 annual meeting will take place on Saturday, May 4th. If you are thinking about attending –
and Charlie and I hope you come – check out the details on pages A-2 – A-3. They describe the same schedule we’ve
followed for some years.
If you can’t join us in Omaha, attend via Yahoo’s webcast. Andy Serwer and his Yahoo associates do an
outstanding job, both in covering the entire meeting and interviewing many Berkshire managers, celebrities, financial
experts and shareholders from the U.S. and abroad. The world’s knowledge of what goes on in Omaha the first
Saturday of every May has grown dramatically since Yahoo came on board. Its coverage begins at 8:45 a.m. CDT and
provides Mandarin translation.
************
For 54 years, Charlie and I have loved our jobs. Daily, we do what we find interesting, working with people
we like and trust. And now our new management structure has made our lives even more enjoyable.
With the whole ensemble – that is, with Ajit and Greg running operations, a great collection of businesses, a
Niagara of cash-generation, a cadre of talented managers and a rock-solid culture – your company is in good shape
for whatever the future brings.

February 23, 2019
