credential. Last year, the one-week volume for the store was a staggering $44.6 million. Bricks and mortar are alive
and well at NFM.
The period’s special pricing will even apply to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that
normally have ironclad rules against discounting but which, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an
exception for you. We appreciate their cooperation. During “Berkshire Weekend,” NFM will be open from 10 a.m. to
9 p.m. Monday through Saturday and 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Sunday. From 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturday, NFM is
hosting a picnic to which you are all invited.
NFM will again extend its shareholder’s discount offerings to our Kansas City and Dallas stores. From May
1st through May 7th, shareholders who present meeting credentials or other evidence of their Berkshire ownership (such
as brokerage statements) to those NFM stores will receive the same discounts enjoyed by those visiting the Omaha
store.
At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholder-only events. The first will be a cocktail reception from
6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Friday, May 4th. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, May 6th, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
On Saturday, we will remain open until 6 p.m. Remember, the more you buy, the more you save (or so my daughter
tells me when we visit the store).
We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, therefore,
shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 30th through Saturday, May 12th. During that period, please
identify yourself as a shareholder either by presenting your meeting credential or a brokerage statement showing you
own our stock.
On Sunday afternoon, on the upper level above Borsheims, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon Osberg,
two of the world’s top bridge experts, available to play with our shareholders. If they suggest wagering on the game,
change the subject. Ajit, Charlie, Bill Gates and I will likely drop by as well.
My friend, Ariel Hsing, will be in the mall as well on Sunday, taking on challengers at table tennis. I met
Ariel when she was nine, and even then I was unable to score a point against her. Ariel represented the United States
in the 2012 Olympics. If you don’t mind embarrassing yourself, test your skills against her, beginning at 1 p.m. Bill
Gates did pretty well playing Ariel last year, so he may be ready to again challenge her. (My advice: Bet on Ariel.) I
will participate on an advisory basis only.
Gorat’s will be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 6th, serving from 12 p.m. until
10 p.m. To make a reservation at Gorat’s, call 402-551-3733 on April 2nd (but not before). Show you are a sophisticated
diner by ordering the T-bone with hash browns.
We will have the same three financial journalists lead the question-and-answer period at the meeting, asking
Charlie and me questions that shareholders have submitted to them by e-mail. The journalists and their e-mail
addresses are: Carol Loomis, the preeminent business journalist of her time, who may be e-mailed at
loomisbrk@gmail.com; Becky Quick, of CNBC, at BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com; and Andrew Ross Sorkin, of the
New York Times, at arsorkin@nytimes.com.

15

From the questions submitted, each journalist will choose the six he or she decides are the most interesting
and important to shareholders. The journalists have told me your question has the best chance of being selected if you
keep it concise, avoid sending it in at the last moment, make it Berkshire-related and include no more than two
questions in any e-mail you send them. (In your e-mail, let the journalist know if you would like your name mentioned
if your question is asked.)
An accompanying set of questions will be asked by three analysts who follow Berkshire. This year the
insurance specialist will be Gary Ransom of Dowling & Partners. Questions that deal with our non-insurance
operations will come from Jonathan Brandt of Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb and Gregg Warren of Morningstar. Since
what we will be conducting is a shareholders’ meeting, our hope is that the analysts and journalists will ask questions
that add to our owners’ understanding and knowledge of their investment.
Neither Charlie nor I will get so much as a clue about the questions headed our way. Some will be tough,
for sure, and that’s the way we like it. Multi-part questions aren’t allowed; we want to give as many questioners as
possible a shot at us. Our goal is for you to leave the meeting knowing more about Berkshire than when you came and
for you to have a good time while in Omaha.
All told, we expect at least 54 questions, which will allow for six from each analyst and journalist and for
18 from the audience. After the 54th, all questions come from the audience. Charlie and I have often tackled more than
60 by 3:30.
The questioners from the audience will be chosen by means of 11 drawings that will take place at 8:15 a.m.
on the morning of the annual meeting. Each of the 11 microphones installed in the arena and main overflow room will
host, so to speak, a drawing.
While I’m on the subject of our owners’ gaining knowledge, let me remind you that Charlie and I believe
all shareholders should simultaneously have access to new information that Berkshire releases and, if possible, should
also have adequate time to digest and analyze that information before any trading takes place. That’s why we try to
issue financial data late on Fridays or early on Saturdays and why our annual meeting is always held on a Saturday (a
day that also eases traffic and parking problems).
We do not follow the common practice of talking one-on-one with large institutional investors or analysts,
treating them instead as we do all other shareholders. There is no one more important to us than the shareholder of
limited means who trusts us with a substantial portion of his or her savings. As I run the company day-to-day – and
as I write this letter – that is the shareholder whose image is in my mind.
************
For good reason, I regularly extol the accomplishments of our operating managers. They are truly All-Stars
who run their businesses as if they were the only asset owned by their families. I also believe the mindset of our
managers to be as shareholder-oriented as can be found in the universe of large publicly-owned companies. Most of
our managers have no financial need to work. The joy of hitting business “home runs” means as much to them as their
paycheck.
If managers (or directors) own Berkshire shares – and many do – it’s from open-market purchases they
have made or because they received shares when they sold their businesses to us. None, however, gets the upside of
ownership without risking the downside. Our directors and managers stand in your shoes.
We continue to have a wonderful group at headquarters. This team efficiently deals with a multitude of
SEC and other regulatory requirements, files a 32,700-page Federal income tax return, oversees the filing of 3,935
state tax returns, responds to countless shareholder and media inquiries, gets out the annual report, prepares for the
country’s largest annual meeting, coordinates the Board’s activities, fact-checks this letter – and the list goes on and
on.

16

They handle all of these business tasks cheerfully and with unbelievable efficiency, making my life easy
and pleasant. Their efforts go beyond activities strictly related to Berkshire: Last year, for example, they dealt with
the 40 universities (selected from 200 applicants) who sent students to Omaha for a Q&A day with me. They also
handle all kinds of requests that I receive, arrange my travel, and even get me hamburgers and French fries (smothered
in Heinz ketchup, of course) for lunch. In addition, they cheerfully pitch in to help at the annual meeting in whatever
way they are needed. They are proud to work for Berkshire, and I am proud of them.
************
I’ve saved the best for last. Early in 2018, Berkshire’s board elected Ajit Jain and Greg Abel as directors
of Berkshire and also designated each as Vice Chairman. Ajit is now responsible for insurance operations, and Greg
oversees the rest of our businesses. Charlie and I will focus on investments and capital allocation.
You and I are lucky to have Ajit and Greg working for us. Each has been with Berkshire for decades, and
Berkshire’s blood flows through their veins. The character of each man matches his talents. And that says it all.
Come to Omaha – the cradle of capitalism – on May 5th and meet the Berkshire Bunch. All of us look
forward to your visit.

February 24, 2018
