systemically decrease utility earnings in any major way. Because of MidAmerican’s everwidening diversity of regulated earnings, it will always utilize major amounts of debt.
And that’s about it. We are not interested in incurring any significant debt at Berkshire for
acquisitions or operating purposes. Conventional business wisdom, of course, would argue that we are
being too conservative and that there are added profits that could be safely earned if we injected moderate
leverage into our balance sheet.
Maybe so. But many of Berkshire’s hundreds of thousands of investors have a large portion of
their net worth in our stock (among them, it should be emphasized, a large number of our board and key
managers) and a disaster for the company would be a disaster for them. Moreover, there are people who
have been permanently injured to whom we owe insurance payments that stretch out for fifty years or
more. To these and other constituencies we have promised total security, whatever comes: financial panics,
stock-exchange closures (an extended one occurred in 1914) or even domestic nuclear, chemical or
biological attacks.
We are quite willing to accept huge risks. Indeed, more than any other insurer, we write high-limit
policies that are tied to single catastrophic events. We also own a large investment portfolio whose market
value could fall dramatically and quickly under certain conditions (as happened on October 19, 1987).
Whatever occurs, though, Berkshire will have the net worth, the earnings streams and the liquidity to
handle the problem with ease.
Any other approach is dangerous. Over the years, a number of very smart people have learned the
hard way that a long string of impressive numbers multiplied by a single zero always equals zero. That is
not an equation whose effects I would like to experience personally, and I would like even less to be
responsible for imposing its penalties upon others.

20

Management Succession
As owners, you are naturally concerned about whether I will insist on continuing as CEO after I
begin to fade and, if so, how the board will handle that problem. You also want to know what happens if I
should die tonight.
That second question is easy to answer. Most of our many businesses have strong market
positions, significant momentum, and terrific managers. The special Berkshire culture is deeply ingrained
throughout our subsidiaries, and these operations won’t miss a beat when I die.
Moreover, we have three managers at Berkshire who are reasonably young and fully capable of
being CEO. Any of the three would be much better at certain management aspects of my job than I. On
the minus side, none has my crossover experience that allows me to be comfortable making decisions in
either the business arena or in investments. That problem will be solved by having another person in the
organization handle marketable securities. That’s an interesting job at Berkshire, and the new CEO will
have no problem in hiring a talented individual to do it. Indeed, that’s what we have done at GEICO for 26
years, and our results have been terrific.
Berkshire’s board has fully discussed each of the three CEO candidates and has unanimously
agreed on the person who should succeed me if a replacement were needed today. The directors stay
updated on this subject and could alter their view as circumstances change – new managerial stars may
emerge and present ones will age. The important point is that the directors know now – and will always
know in the future – exactly what they will do when the need arises.
The other question that must be addressed is whether the Board will be prepared to make a change
if that need should arise not from my death but rather from my decay, particularly if this decay is
accompanied by my delusionally thinking that I am reaching new peaks of managerial brilliance. That
problem would not be unique to me. Charlie and I have faced this situation from time to time at
Berkshire’s subsidiaries. Humans age at greatly varying rates – but sooner or later their talents and vigor
decline. Some managers remain effective well into their 80s – Charlie is a wonder at 82 – and others
noticeably fade in their 60s. When their abilities ebb, so usually do their powers of self-assessment.
Someone else often needs to blow the whistle.
When that time comes for me, our board will have to step up to the job. From a financial
standpoint, its members are unusually motivated to do so. I know of no other board in the country in which
the financial interests of directors are so completely aligned with those of shareholders. Few boards even
come close. On a personal level, however, it is extraordinarily difficult for most people to tell someone,
particularly a friend, that he or she is no longer capable.
If I become a candidate for that message, however, our board will be doing me a favor by
delivering it. Every share of Berkshire that I own is destined to go to philanthropies, and I want society to
reap the maximum good from these gifts and bequests. It would be a tragedy if the philanthropic potential
of my holdings was diminished because my associates shirked their responsibility to (tenderly, I hope)
show me the door. But don’t worry about this. We have an outstanding group of directors, and they will
always do what’s right for shareholders.
And while we are on the subject, I feel terrific.
The Annual Meeting
Our meeting this year will be on Saturday, May 6. As always, the doors will open at the Qwest
Center at 7 a.m., and the latest Berkshire movie will be shown at 8:30. At 9:30 we will go directly to the
question-and-answer period, which (with a break for lunch at the Qwest’s stands) will last until 3:00. Then,
after a short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:15. This schedule worked well last
year, because it let those who wanted to attend the formal session to do so, while freeing others to shop.

21

You certainly did your share in this respect last year. The 194,300 square foot hall adjoining the
meeting area was filled with the products of Berkshire subsidiaries, and the 21,000 people who came to the
meeting allowed every location to rack up sales records. Kelly Broz (neé Muchemore), the Flo Ziegfeld of
Berkshire, orchestrates both this magnificent shopping extravaganza and the meeting itself. The exhibitors
love her, and so do I. Kelly got married in October, and I gave her away. She asked me how I wanted to
be listed in the wedding program. I replied “envious of the groom,” and that’s the way it went to press.
This year we will showcase two Clayton homes (featuring Acme brick, Shaw carpet, Johns
Manville insulation, MiTek fasteners, Carefree awnings and NFM furniture). You will find that these
homes, priced at $79,000 and $89,000, deliver excellent value. In fact, three shareholders came so firmly
to that conclusion last year that they bought the $119,000 model we then showcased. Flanking the Clayton
homes on the exhibition floor will be RVs from Forest River.
GEICO will have a booth staffed by a number of its top counselors from around the country, all of
them ready to supply you with auto insurance quotes. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a
special shareholder discount (usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 45 of the 50 jurisdictions in
which we operate. (One supplemental point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another, such as
that given certain groups.) Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out whether we can save
you money. For at least 50% of you, I believe we can. And while you’re at it, sign up for the new GEICO
credit card. It’s the one I now use.
On Saturday, at the Omaha airport, we will have the usual array of aircraft from NetJets®
available for your inspection. Stop by the NetJets booth at the Qwest to learn about viewing these planes.
Come to Omaha by bus; leave in your new plane.
The Bookworm boutique at the Qwest broke all records last year selling Berkshire-related books.
An amazing 3,500 of these were Poor Charlie’s Almanack, the collected wisdom of my partner. This
means that a copy was sold every 9 seconds. And for good reason: You will never find a book with more
useful ideas. Word-of-mouth recommendations have caused Charlie’s first printing of 20,500 copies to sell
out, and we will therefore have a revised and expanded edition on sale at our meeting. Among the other 22
titles and DVDs available last year at the Bookworm, 4,597 copies were sold for $84,746. Our
shareholders are a bookseller’s dream.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain
the credential you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. As for plane, hotel and car