Our investees paid us dividends of $3.8 billion last year, a sum that will increase in 2019. Far more important
than the dividends, though, are the huge earnings that are annually retained by these companies. Consider, as an
indicator, these figures that cover only our five largest holdings.
Company
American Express
Apple
Bank of America
Coca-Cola
Wells Fargo
Total

Yearend
Ownership
17.9%
5.4%
9.5%
9.4%
9.8%

Berkshire’s Share in $ millions of
Dividends(1)
Retained Earnings(2)
$ 237
745
551
624
809

$ 997
2,502
2,096
(21)
1,263

$2,966

$6,837

(1) Based on current annual rate.
(2) Based on 2018 earnings minus common and preferred dividends paid.
GAAP – which dictates the earnings we report – does not allow us to include the retained earnings of
investees in our financial accounts. But those earnings are of enormous value to us: Over the years, earnings retained
by our investees (viewed as a group) have eventually delivered capital gains to Berkshire that totaled more than one
dollar for each dollar these companies reinvested for us.
All of our major holdings enjoy excellent economics, and most use a portion of their retained earnings to
repurchase their shares. We very much like that: If Charlie and I think an investee’s stock is underpriced, we rejoice
when management employs some of its earnings to increase Berkshire’s ownership percentage.

5

Here’s one example drawn from the table above: Berkshire’s holdings of American Express have remained
unchanged over the past eight years. Meanwhile, our ownership increased from 12.6% to 17.9% because of
repurchases made by the company. Last year, Berkshire’s portion of the $6.9 billion earned by American Express was
$1.2 billion, about 96% of the $1.3 billion we paid for our stake in the company. When earnings increase and shares
outstanding decrease, owners – over time – usually do well.
A third category of Berkshire’s business ownership is a quartet of companies in which we share control with
other parties. Our portion of the after-tax operating earnings of these businesses – 26.7% of Kraft Heinz, 50% of
Berkadia and Electric Transmission Texas, and 38.6% of Pilot Flying J – totaled about $1.3 billion in 2018.
In our fourth grove, Berkshire held $112 billion at yearend in U.S. Treasury bills and other cash equivalents,
and another $20 billion in miscellaneous fixed-income instruments. We consider a portion of that stash to be
untouchable, having pledged to always hold at least $20 billion in cash equivalents to guard against external calamities.
We have also promised to avoid any activities that could threaten our maintaining that buffer.
Berkshire will forever remain a financial fortress. In managing, I will make expensive mistakes of
commission and will also miss many opportunities, some of which should have been obvious to me. At times, our
stock will tumble as investors flee from equities. But I will never risk getting caught short of cash.
In the years ahead, we hope to move much of our excess liquidity into businesses that Berkshire will
permanently own. The immediate prospects for that, however, are not good: Prices are sky-high for businesses
possessing decent long-term prospects.
That disappointing reality means that 2019 will likely see us again expanding our holdings of marketable
equities. We continue, nevertheless, to hope for an elephant-sized acquisition. Even at our ages of 88 and 95 – I’m the
young one – that prospect is what causes my heart and Charlie’s to beat faster. (Just writing about the possibility of a
huge purchase has caused my pulse rate to soar.)
My expectation of more stock purchases is not a market call. Charlie and I have no idea as to how stocks will
behave next week or next year. Predictions of that sort have never been a part of our activities. Our thinking, rather,
is focused on calculating whether a portion of an attractive business is worth more than its market price.
************
I believe Berkshire’s intrinsic value can be approximated by summing the values of our four asset-laden
groves and then subtracting an appropriate amount for taxes eventually payable on the sale of marketable securities.
You may ask whether an allowance should not also be made for the major tax costs Berkshire would incur if
we were to sell certain of our wholly-owned businesses. Forget that thought: It would be foolish for us to sell any of
our wonderful companies even if no tax would be payable on its sale. Truly good businesses are exceptionally hard to
find. Selling any you are lucky enough to own makes no sense at all.
The interest cost on all of our debt has been deducted as an expense in calculating the earnings at Berkshire’s
non-insurance businesses. Beyond that, much of our ownership of the first four groves is financed by funds generated
from Berkshire’s fifth grove – a collection of exceptional insurance companies. We call those funds “float,” a source
of financing that we expect to be cost-free – or maybe even better than that – over time. We will explain the
characteristics of float later in this letter.
Finally, a point of key and lasting importance: Berkshire’s value is maximized by our having assembled the
five groves into a single entity. This arrangement allows us to seamlessly and objectively allocate major amounts of
capital, eliminate enterprise risk, avoid insularity, fund assets at exceptionally low cost, occasionally take advantage
of tax efficiencies, and minimize overhead.
At Berkshire, the whole is greater – considerably greater – than the sum of the parts.

6

Repurchases and Reporting
Earlier I mentioned that Berkshire will from time to time be repurchasing its own stock. Assuming that we
buy at a discount to Berkshire’s intrinsic value – which certainly will be our intention – repurchases will benefit both
those shareholders leaving the company and those who stay.
True, the upside from repurchases is very slight for those who are leaving. That’s because careful buying by
us will minimize any impact on Berkshire’s stock price. Nevertheless, there is some benefit to sellers in having an
extra buyer in the market.
For continuing shareholders, the advantage is obvious: If the market prices a departing partner’s interest at,
say, 90¢ on the dollar, continuing shareholders reap an increase in per-share intrinsic value with every repurchase by
the company. Obviously, repurchases should be price-sensitive: Blindly buying an overpriced stock is valuedestructive, a fact lost on many promotional or ever-optimistic CEOs.
When a company says that it contemplates repurchases, it’s vital that all shareholder-partners be given the
information they need to make an intelligent estimate of value. Providing that information is what Charlie and I try to
do in this report. We do not want a partner to sell shares back to the company because he or she has been misled or
inadequately informed.
Some sellers, however, may disagree with our calculation of value and others may have found investments
that they consider more attractive than Berkshire shares. Some of that second group will be right: There are
unquestionably many stocks that will deliver far greater gains than ours.
In addition, certain shareholders will simply decide it’s time for them or their families to become net
consumers rather than continuing to build capital. Charlie and I have no current interest in joining that group. Perhaps
we will become big spenders in our old age.
************
For 54 years our managerial decisions at Berkshire have been made from the viewpoint of the shareholders
who are staying, not those who are leaving. Consequently, Charlie and I have never focused on current-quarter results.
Berkshire, in fact, may be the only company in the Fortune 500 that does not prepare monthly earnings reports
or balance sheets. I, of course, regularly view the monthly financial reports of most subsidiaries. But Charlie and I
learn of Berkshire’s overall earnings and financial position only on a quarterly basis.
Furthermore, Berkshire has no company-wide budget (though many of our subsidiaries find one useful). Our
lack of such an instrument means that the parent company has never had a quarterly “number” to hit. Shunning the
use of this bogey sends an important message to our many managers, reinforcing the culture we prize.
Over the years, Charlie and I have seen all sorts of bad corporate behavior, both accounting and operational,
induced by the desire of management to meet Wall Street expectations. What starts as an “innocent” fudge in order to
not disappoint “the Street” – say, trade-loading at quarter-end, turning a blind eye to rising insurance losses, or drawing
down a “cookie-jar” reserve – can become the first step toward full-fledged fraud. Playing with the numbers “just this
once” may well be the CEO’s intent; it’s seldom the end result. And if it’s okay for the boss to cheat a little, it’s easy
for subordinates to rationalize similar behavior.
At Berkshire, our audience is neither analysts nor commentators: Charlie and I are working for our
shareholder-partners. The numbers that flow up to us will be the ones we send on to you.

7

Non-Insurance Operations – From Lollipops to Locomotives