carried on the books should be deemed valueless, whatever its original cost.

7

Fortunately, that’s not the case at Berkshire. Charlie and I believe the true economic value of our insurance
goodwill – what we would happily pay to purchase an insurance operation producing float of similar quality – to be
far in excess of its historic carrying value. The value of our float is one reason – a huge reason – why we believe
Berkshire’s intrinsic business value substantially exceeds its book value.
Let me emphasize once again that cost-free float is not an outcome to be expected for the P/C industry as a
whole: There is very little “Berkshire-quality” float existing in the insurance world. In 37 of the 45 years ending in
2011, the industry’s premiums have been inadequate to cover claims plus expenses. Consequently, the industry’s
overall return on tangible equity has for many decades fallen far short of the average return realized by American
industry, a sorry performance almost certain to continue.
A further unpleasant reality adds to the industry’s dim prospects: Insurance earnings are now benefitting
from “legacy” bond portfolios that deliver much higher yields than will be available when funds are reinvested
during the next few years – and perhaps for many years beyond that. Today’s bond portfolios are, in effect, wasting
assets. Earnings of insurers will be hurt in a significant way as bonds mature and are rolled over.
************
Berkshire’s outstanding economics exist only because we have some terrific managers running some
extraordinary insurance operations. Let me tell you about the major units.
First by float size is the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, run by Ajit Jain. Ajit insures risks that no
one else has the desire or the capital to take on. His operation combines capacity, speed, decisiveness and, most
important, brains in a manner unique in the insurance business. Yet he never exposes Berkshire to risks that are
inappropriate in relation to our resources. Indeed, we are far more conservative in avoiding risk than most large
insurers. For example, if the insurance industry should experience a $250 billion loss from some mega-catastrophe
– a loss about triple anything it has ever experienced – Berkshire as a whole would likely record a significant profit
for the year because it has so many streams of earnings. All other major insurers and reinsurers would meanwhile
be far in the red, with some facing insolvency.
From a standing start in 1985, Ajit has created an insurance business with float of $35 billion and a
significant cumulative underwriting profit, a feat that no other insurance CEO has come close to matching. He has
thus added a great many billions of dollars to the value of Berkshire. If you meet Ajit at the annual meeting, bow
deeply.
************
We have another reinsurance powerhouse in General Re, managed by Tad Montross.
At bottom, a sound insurance operation needs to adhere to four disciplines. It must (1) understand all
exposures that might cause a policy to incur losses; (2) conservatively assess the likelihood of any exposure actually
causing a loss and the probable cost if it does; (3) set a premium that, on average, will deliver a profit after both
prospective loss costs and operating expenses are covered; and (4) be willing to walk away if the appropriate
premium can’t be obtained.
Many insurers pass the first three tests and flunk the fourth. They simply can’t turn their back on business
that is being eagerly written by their competitors. That old line, “The other guy is doing it, so we must as well,”
spells trouble in any business, but none more so than insurance.

8

Tad has observed all four of the insurance commandments, and it shows in his results. General Re’s huge
float has been better than cost-free under his leadership, and we expect that, on average, it will continue to be. We
are particularly enthusiastic about General Re’s international life reinsurance business, which has achieved
consistent and profitable growth since we acquired the company in 1998.
************
Finally, there is GEICO, the insurer on which I cut my teeth 62 years ago. GEICO is run by Tony Nicely,
who joined the company at 18 and completed 51 years of service in 2012.
I rub my eyes when I look at what Tony has accomplished. Last year, it should be noted, his record was
considerably better than is indicated by GEICO’s GAAP underwriting profit of $680 million. Because of a change
in accounting rules at the beginning of the year, we recorded a charge to GEICO’s underwriting earnings of
$410 million. This item had nothing to do with 2012’s operating results, changing neither cash, revenues, expenses
nor taxes. In effect, the writedown simply widened the already huge difference between GEICO’s intrinsic value
and the value at which we carry it on our books.
GEICO earned its underwriting profit, moreover, despite the company suffering its largest single loss in
history. The cause was Hurricane Sandy, which cost GEICO more than three times the loss it sustained from
Katrina, the previous record-holder. We insured 46,906 vehicles that were destroyed or damaged in the storm, a
staggering number reflecting GEICO’s leading market share in the New York metropolitan area.
Last year GEICO enjoyed a meaningful increase in both the renewal rate for existing policyholders
(“persistency”) and in the percentage of rate quotations that resulted in sales (“closures”). Big dollars ride on those
two factors: A sustained gain in persistency of a bare one percentage point increases intrinsic value by more than
$1 billion. GEICO’s gains in 2012 offer dramatic proof that when people check the company’s prices, they usually
find they can save important sums. (Give us a try at 1-800-847-7536 or GEICO.com. Be sure to mention that you are a
shareholder; that fact will usually result in a discount.)
************
In addition to our three major insurance operations, we own a group of smaller companies, most of them
plying their trade in odd corners of the insurance world. In aggregate, these companies have consistently delivered
an underwriting profit. Moreover, as the table below shows, they also provide us with substantial float. Charlie and
I treasure these companies and their managers.
Late in 2012, we enlarged this group by acquiring Guard Insurance, a Wilkes-Barre company that writes
workers compensation insurance, primarily for smaller businesses. Guard’s annual premiums total about $300
million. The company has excellent prospects for growth in both its traditional business and new lines it has begun
to offer.

Insurance Operations
BH Reinsurance . . . . . . . . .
General Re . . . . . . . . . . . . .
GEICO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Primary . . . . . . . . . .

Yearend Float
Underwriting Profit
(in millions)
2012
2011
2012
2011
$ 304
$(714)
$34,821
$33,728
355
144
20,128
19,714
680*
576
11,578
11,169
286
242
6,598
5,960
$1,625
$ 248
$73,125
$70,571

*After a $410 million charge against earnings arising from an industry-wide accounting change.
Among large insurance operations, Berkshire’s impresses me as the best in the world. It was our lucky day
when, in March 1967, Jack Ringwalt sold us his two property-casualty insurers for $8.6 million.

9

Regulated, Capital-Intensive Businesses
We have two major operations, BNSF and MidAmerican Energy, that have important common
characteristics distinguishing them from our other businesses. Consequently, we assign them their own section in
this letter and split out their combined financial statistics in our GAAP balance sheet and income statement.
A key characteristic of both companies is their huge investment in very long-lived, regulated assets, with
these partially funded by large amounts of long-term debt that is not guaranteed by Berkshire. Our credit is in fact
not needed because each business has earning power that even under terrible conditions amply covers its interest
requirements. In last year’s tepid economy, for example, BNSF’s interest coverage was 9.6x. (Our definition of
coverage is pre-tax earnings/interest, not EBITDA/interest, a commonly-used measure we view as deeply flawed.)
At MidAmerican, meanwhile, two key factors ensure its ability to service debt under all circumstances: the
company’s recession-resistant earnings, which result from our exclusively offering an essential service, and its great
diversity of earnings streams, which shield it from being seriously harmed by any single regulatory body.
Every day, our two subsidiaries power the American economy in major ways:
Š

BNSF carries about 15% (measured by ton-miles) of all inter-city freight, whether it is transported by
truck, rail, water, air, or pipeline. Indeed, we move more ton-miles of goods than anyone else, a fact
making BNSF the most important artery in our economy’s circulatory system.
BNSF also moves its cargo in an extraordinarily fuel-efficient and environmentally friendly way, carrying a
ton of freight about 500 miles on a single gallon of diesel fuel. Trucks taking on the same job guzzle about
four times as much fuel.

Š

MidAmerican’s electric utilities serve regulated retail customers in ten states. Only one utility holding