Clearly, float carrying an annual cost of this kind is not as desirable as float we generate from policies that
are expected to produce an underwriting profit (of which we have plenty). Nevertheless, this retroactive insurance
should be decent business for us.
The net of all this is that a) I expect our cost of float to be very attractive in the future but b) rarely to
return to a “no-cost” mode because of the annual charge that retroactive reinsurance will lay on us. Also —
obviously  the ultimate benefits that we derive from float will depend not only on its cost but, fully as important,
how effectively we deploy it.
Our retroactive business is almost single-handedly the work of Ajit Jain, whose praises I sing annually. It
is impossible to overstate how valuable Ajit is to Berkshire. Don’t worry about my health; worry about his.
Last year, Ajit brought home a $2.4 billion reinsurance premium, perhaps the largest in history, from a
policy that retroactively covers a major U.K. company. Subsequently, he wrote a large policy protecting the Texas
Rangers from the possibility that Alex Rodriguez will become permanently disabled. As sports fans know, “A-Rod”
was signed for $252 million, a record, and we think that our policy probably also set a record for disability
insurance. We cover many other sports figures as well.
In another example of his versatility, Ajit last fall negotiated a very interesting deal with Grab.com, an
Internet company whose goal was to attract millions of people to its site and there to extract information from them
that would be useful to marketers. To lure these people, Grab.com held out the possibility of a $1 billion prize
(having a $170 million present value) and we insured its payment. A message on the site explained that the
chance of anyone winning the prize was low, and indeed no one won. But the possibility of a win was far from nil.
Writing such a policy, we receive a modest premium, face the possibility of a huge loss, and get good
odds. Very few insurers like that equation. And they’re unable to cure their unhappiness by reinsurance. Because
each policy has unusual  and sometimes unique  characteristics, insurers can’t lay off the occasional shock loss

9

through their standard reinsurance arrangements. Therefore, any insurance CEO doing a piece of business like this
must run the small, but real, risk of a horrible quarterly earnings number, one that he would not enjoy explaining to
his board or shareholders. Charlie and I, however, like any proposition that makes compelling mathematical sense,
regardless of its effect on reported earnings.
At General Re, the news has turned considerably better: Ron Ferguson, along with Joe Brandon, Tad
Montross, and a talented supporting cast took many actions during 2000 to bring that company’s profitability back
to past standards. Though our pricing is not fully corrected, we have significantly repriced business that was
severely unprofitable or dropped it altogether. If there’s no mega-catastrophe in 2001, General Re’s float cost
should fall materially.
The last couple of years haven’t been any fun for Ron and his crew. But they have stepped up to tough
decisions, and Charlie and I applaud them for these. General Re has several important and enduring business
advantages. Better yet, it has managers who will make the most of them.
In aggregate, our smaller insurance operations produced an excellent underwriting profit in 2000 while
generating significant float — just as they have done for more than a decade. If these companies were a single and
separate operation, people would consider it an outstanding insurer. Because the companies instead reside in an
enterprise as large as Berkshire, the world may not appreciate their accomplishments — but I sure do. Last year I
thanked Rod Eldred, John Kizer, Don Towle and Don Wurster, and I again do so. In addition, we now also owe
thanks to Tom Nerney at U.S. Liability and Michael Stearns, the new head of Cypress.
You may notice that Brad Kinstler, who was CEO of Cypress and whose praises I’ve sung in the past, is no
longer in the list above. That’s because we needed a new manager at Fechheimer Bros., our Cincinnati-based
uniform company, and called on Brad. We seldom move Berkshire managers from one enterprise to another, but
maybe we should try it more often: Brad is hitting home runs in his new job, just as he always did at Cypress.
GEICO (1-800-847-7536 or GEICO.com)
We show below the usual table detailing GEICO’s growth. Last year I enthusiastically told you that we
would step up our expenditures on advertising in 2000 and that the added dollars were the best investment that
GEICO could make. I was wrong: The extra money we spent did not produce a commensurate increase in
inquiries. Additionally, the percentage of inquiries that we converted into sales fell for the first time in many
years. These negative developments combined to produce a sharp increase in our per-policy acquisition cost.

(1)

Years

New Auto
Policies(1)

Auto Policies
In-Force(1)

1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000

346,882
384,217
443,539
592,300
868,430
1,249,875
1,648,095
1,472,853

2,011,055
2,147,549
2,310,037
2,543,699
2,949,439
3,562,644
4,328,900
4,696,842

“Voluntary” only; excludes assigned risks and the like.

Agonizing over errors is a mistake. But acknowledging and analyzing them can be useful, though that
practice is rare in corporate boardrooms. There, Charlie and I have almost never witnessed a candid post-mortem of
a failed decision, particularly one involving an acquisition. A notable exception to this never-look-back approach is
that of The Washington Post Company, which unfailingly and objectively reviews its acquisitions three years after
they are made. Elsewhere, triumphs are trumpeted, but dumb decisions either get no follow-up or are rationalized.

10

The financial consequences of these boners are regularly dumped into massive restructuring charges or
write-offs that are casually waved off as “nonrecurring.” Managements just love these. Indeed, in recent years it
has seemed that no earnings statement is complete without them. The origins of these charges, though, are never
explored. When it comes to corporate blunders, CEOs invoke the concept of the Virgin Birth.
To get back to our examination of GEICO: There are at least four factors that could account for the
increased costs we experienced in obtaining new business last year, and all probably contributed in some manner.
First, in our advertising we have pushed “frequency” very hard, and we probably overstepped in certain
media. We’ve always known that increasing the number of messages through any medium would eventually
produce diminishing returns. The third ad in an hour on a given cable channel is simply not going to be as effective
as the first.
Second, we may have already picked much of the low-hanging fruit. Clearly, the willingness to do
business with a direct marketer of insurance varies widely among individuals: Indeed, some percentage of
Americans  particularly older ones  are reluctant to make direct purchases of any kind. Over the years,
however, this reluctance will ebb. A new generation with new habits will find the savings from direct purchase of
their auto insurance too compelling to ignore.
Another factor that surely decreased the conversion of inquiries into sales was stricter underwriting by
GEICO. Both the frequency and severity of losses increased during the year, and rates in certain areas became
inadequate, in some cases substantially so. In these instances, we necessarily tightened our underwriting standards.
This tightening, as well as the many rate increases we put in during the year, made our offerings less attractive to
some prospects.
A high percentage of callers, it should be emphasized, can still save money by insuring with us.
Understandably, however, some prospects will switch to save $200 per year but will not switch to save $50.
Therefore, rate increases that bring our prices closer to those of our competitors will hurt our acceptance rate, even
when we continue to offer the best deal.
Finally, the competitive picture changed in at least one important respect: State Farm  by far the largest
personal auto insurer, with about 19% of the market — has been very slow to raise prices. Its costs, however, are
clearly increasing right along with those of the rest of the industry. Consequently, State Farm had an underwriting
loss last year from auto insurance (including rebates to policyholders) of 18% of premiums, compared to 4% at
GEICO. Our loss produced a float cost for us of 6.1%, an unsatisfactory result. (Indeed, at GEICO we expect float,
over time, to be free.) But we estimate that State Farm’s float cost in 2000 was about 23%. The willingness of the
largest player in the industry to tolerate such a cost makes the economics difficult for other participants.
That does not take away from the fact that State Farm is one of America’s greatest business stories. I’ve
urged that the company be studied at business schools because it has achieved fabulous success while following a
path that in many ways defies the dogma of those institutions. Studying counter-evidence is a highly useful activity,