or dishonest that payment of interest is suspended.  In contrast, 
the ability of management can dramatically affect the equity 
"coupons."

     The investment shown by the discounted-flows-of-cash 
calculation to be the cheapest is the one that the investor should 
purchase - irrespective of whether the business grows or doesn't, 
displays volatility or smoothness in its earnings, or carries a 
high price or low in relation to its current earnings and book 
value.  Moreover, though the value equation has usually shown 
equities to be cheaper than bonds, that result is not inevitable:  
When bonds are calculated to be the more attractive investment, 
they should be bought.

     Leaving the question of price aside, the best business to own 
is one that over an extended period can employ large amounts of 
incremental capital at very high rates of return.  The worst 
business to own is one that must, or
will
, do the opposite - that 
is, consistently employ ever-greater amounts of capital at very low 
rates of return.  Unfortunately, the first type of business is very 
hard to find:  Most high-return businesses need relatively little 
capital.  Shareholders of such a business usually will benefit if 
it pays out most of its earnings in dividends or makes significant 
stock repurchases.

     Though the mathematical calculations required to evaluate 
equities are not difficult, an analyst - even one who is 
experienced and intelligent - can easily go wrong in estimating 
future "coupons."  At Berkshire, we attempt to deal with this 
problem in two ways.  First, we try to stick to businesses we 
believe we understand.  That means they must be relatively simple 
and stable in character.  If a business is complex or subject to 
constant change, we're not smart enough to predict future cash 
flows.  Incidentally, that shortcoming doesn't bother us.  What 
counts for most people in investing is not how much they know, but 
rather how realistically they define what they don't know.  An 
investor needs to do very few things right as long as he or she 
avoids big mistakes.

     Second, and equally important, we insist on a margin of safety 
in our purchase price.  If we calculate the value of a common stock 
to be only slightly higher than its price, we're not interested in 
buying.  We believe this margin-of-safety principle, so strongly 
emphasized by Ben Graham, to be the cornerstone of investment 
success.
Fixed-Income Securities
Below we list our largest holdings of fixed-income securities:

                                                 (000s omitted)   
                                     ------------------------------------
                                      Cost of Preferreds and
     Issuer                          Amortized Value of Bonds    Market
     ------                          ------------------------  ----------
     ACF Industries Debentures ......       $133,065(1)        $163,327
     American Express "Percs" .......        300,000            309,000(1)(2)
     Champion International Conv. Pfd.       300,000(1)         309,000(2)
     First Empire State Conv. Pfd. ..         40,000             68,000(1)(2)
     Salomon Conv. Pfd. .............        700,000(1)         756,000(2)
     USAir Conv. Pfd. ...............        358,000(1)         268,500(2)
     Washington Public Power Systems Bonds    58,768(1)          81,002

     (1) Carrying value in our financial statements
     (2) Fair value as determined by Charlie and me

     During 1992 we added to our holdings of ACF debentures, had 
some of our WPPSS bonds called, and sold our RJR Nabisco position.

     Over the years, we've done well with fixed-income investments, 
having realized from them both large capital gains (including $80 
million in 1992) and exceptional current income.  Chrysler 
Financial, Texaco, Time-Warner, WPPSS and RJR Nabisco were 
particularly good investments for us.  Meanwhile, our fixed-income 
losses have been negligible:  We've had thrills but so far no 
spills.

     Despite the success we experienced with our Gillette 
preferred, which converted to common stock in 1991, and despite our 
reasonable results with other negotiated purchases of preferreds, 
our overall performance with such purchases has been inferior to 
that we have achieved with purchases made in the secondary market. 
This is actually the result we expected.  It corresponds with our 
belief that an intelligent investor in common stocks will do better 
in the secondary market than he will do buying new issues.

     The reason has to do with the way prices are set in each 
instance.  The secondary market, which is periodically ruled by 
mass folly, is constantly setting a "clearing" price.  No matter 
how foolish that price may be, it's what counts for the holder of a 
stock or bond who needs or wishes to sell, of whom there are always 
going to be a few at any moment.  In many instances, shares worth
x
in business value have sold in the market for 1/2
x
or less.

     The new-issue market, on the other hand, is ruled by 
controlling stockholders and corporations, who can usually select 
the timing of offerings or, if the market looks unfavorable, can 
avoid an offering altogether.  Understandably, these sellers are 
not going to offer any bargains, either by way of a public offering 
or in a negotiated transaction:  It's rare you'll find
x
for
1/2
x
here.  Indeed, in the case of common-stock offerings, selling 
shareholders are often motivated to unload
only
when they feel the 
market is overpaying.  (These sellers, of course, would state that 
proposition somewhat differently, averring instead that they simply 
resist selling when the market is underpaying for their goods.)

     To date, our negotiated purchases, as a group, have fulfilled 
but not exceeded the expectation we set forth in our 1989 Annual 
Report:  "Our preferred stock investments should produce returns 
modestly above those achieved by most fixed-income portfolios."  In 
truth, we would have done better if we could have put the money 
that went into our negotiated transactions into open-market 
purchases of the type we like.  But both our size and the general 
strength of the markets made that difficult to do.

     There was one other memorable line in the 1989 Annual Report: 
"We have no ability to forecast the economics of the investment 
banking business, the airline industry, or the paper industry."  At 
the time some of you may have doubted this confession of ignorance. 
Now, however, even my mother acknowledges its truth.

     In the case of our commitment to USAir, industry economics had 
soured before the ink dried on our check.  As I've previously 
mentioned, it was I who happily jumped into the pool; no one pushed 
me.  Yes, I knew the industry would be ruggedly competitive, but I 
did not expect its leaders to engage in prolonged kamikaze 
behavior.  In the last two years, airline companies have acted as 
if they are members of a competitive tontine, which they wish to 
bring to its conclusion as rapidly as possible.

     Amidst this turmoil, Seth Schofield, CEO of USAir, has done a 
truly extraordinary job in repositioning the airline.  He was 
particularly courageous in accepting a strike last fall that, had 
it been lengthy,  might well have bankrupted the company.  
Capitulating to the striking union, however, would have been 
equally disastrous:  The company was burdened with wage costs and 
work rules that were considerably more onerous than those 
encumbering its major competitors, and it was clear that over time 
any high-cost producer faced extinction.  Happily for everyone, the 
strike was settled in a few days.

     A competitively-beset business such as USAir requires far more 
managerial skill than does a business with fine economics.  
Unfortunately, though, the near-term reward for skill in the 
airline business is simply survival, not prosperity.

     In early 1993, USAir took a major step toward assuring 
survival - and eventual prosperity - by accepting British Airways' 
offer to make a substantial, but minority, investment in the 
company.  In connection with this transaction, Charlie and I were 
asked to join the USAir board.  We agreed, though this makes five 
outside board memberships for me, which is more than I believe 
advisable for an active CEO.  Even so, if an investee's management 
and directors believe it particularly important that Charlie and I 
join its board, we are glad to do so.  We expect the managers of 
our investees to work hard to increase the value of the businesses 
they run, and there are times when large owners should do their bit 
as well.
Two New Accounting Rules and a Plea for One More
A new accounting rule having to do with deferred taxes becomes 
effective in 1993.  It undoes a dichotomy in our books that I have 
described in previous annual reports and that relates to the 
accrued taxes carried against the unrealized appreciation in our 
investment portfolio.  At yearend 1992, that appreciation amounted 
to $7.6 billion.  Against $6.4 billion of that, we carried taxes at 
the current 34% rate.  Against the remainder of $1.2 billion, we 
carried an accrual of 28%, the tax rate in effect when that portion 
of the appreciation occurred.  The new accounting rule says we must 
henceforth accrue all deferred tax at the current rate, which to us 
seems sensible.

     The new marching orders mean that in the first quarter of 1993 
we will apply a 34% rate to all of our unrealized appreciation, 
thereby increasing the tax liability and reducing net worth by $70 
million.  The new rule also will cause us to make other minor 
changes in our calculation of deferred taxes.

     Future changes in tax rates will be reflected immediately in 
the liability for deferred taxes and, correspondingly, in net 