when credit losses occur at companies that are included in various high-yield indices. Our standard
contract covers a five-year period and involves 100 companies. We modestly expanded our position
last year in this category. But, of course, the contracts on the books at the end of 2007 moved one
year closer to their maturity. Overall, our contracts now have an average life of 2 1⁄ 3 years, with the
first expiration due to occur on September 20, 2009 and the last on December 20, 2013.
By yearend we had received premiums of $3.4 billion on these contracts and paid losses of $542
million. Using mark-to-market principles, we also set up a liability for future losses that at yearend
totaled $3.0 billion. Thus we had to that point recorded a loss of about $100 million, derived from
our $3.5 billion total in paid and estimated future losses minus the $3.4 billion of premiums we
received. In our quarterly reports, however, the amount of gain or loss has swung wildly from a
profit of $327 million in the second quarter of 2008 to a loss of $693 million in the fourth quarter of
2008.
Surprisingly, we made payments on these contracts of only $97 million last year, far below the
estimate I used when I decided to enter into them. This year, however, losses have accelerated
sharply with the mushrooming of large bankruptcies. In last year’s letter, I told you I expected these
contracts to show a profit at expiration. Now, with the recession deepening at a rapid rate, the
possibility of an eventual loss has increased. Whatever the result, I will keep you posted.

•

In 2008 we began to write “credit default swaps” on individual companies. This is simply credit
insurance, similar to what we write in BHAC, except that here we bear the credit risk of
corporations rather than of tax-exempt issuers.
If, say, the XYZ company goes bankrupt, and we have written a $100 million contract, we are
obligated to pay an amount that reflects the shrinkage in value of a comparable amount of XYZ’s
debt. (If, for example, the company’s bonds are selling for 30 after default, we would owe $70
million.) For the typical contract, we receive quarterly payments for five years, after which our
insurance expires.
At yearend we had written $4 billion of contracts covering 42 corporations, for which we receive
annual premiums of $93 million. This is the only derivatives business we write that has any
counterparty risk; the party that buys the contract from us must be good for the quarterly premiums
it will owe us over the five years. We are unlikely to expand this business to any extent because
most buyers of this protection now insist that the seller post collateral, and we will not enter into
such an arrangement.

•

At the request of our customers, we write a few tax-exempt bond insurance contracts that are
similar to those written at BHAC, but that are structured as derivatives. The only meaningful
difference between the two contracts is that mark-to-market accounting is required for derivatives
whereas standard accrual accounting is required at BHAC.

19

But this difference can produce some strange results. The bonds covered – in effect, insured – by
these derivatives are largely general obligations of states, and we feel good about them. At yearend,
however, mark-to-market accounting required us to record a loss of $631 million on these
derivatives contracts. Had we instead insured the same bonds at the same price in BHAC, and used
the accrual accounting required at insurance companies, we would have recorded a small profit for
the year. The two methods by which we insure the bonds will eventually produce the same
accounting result. In the short term, however, the variance in reported profits can be substantial.
We have told you before that our derivative contracts, subject as they are to mark-to-market
accounting, will produce wild swings in the earnings we report. The ups and downs neither cheer nor bother
Charlie and me. Indeed, the “downs” can be helpful in that they give us an opportunity to expand a position on
favorable terms. I hope this explanation of our dealings will lead you to think similarly.
************
The Black-Scholes formula has approached the status of holy writ in finance, and we use it when
valuing our equity put options for financial statement purposes. Key inputs to the calculation include a contract’s
maturity and strike price, as well as the analyst’s expectations for volatility, interest rates and dividends.
If the formula is applied to extended time periods, however, it can produce absurd results. In fairness,
Black and Scholes almost certainly understood this point well. But their devoted followers may be ignoring
whatever caveats the two men attached when they first unveiled the formula.
It’s often useful in testing a theory to push it to extremes. So let’s postulate that we sell a 100- year $1
billion put option on the S&P 500 at a strike price of 903 (the index’s level on 12/31/08). Using the implied
volatility assumption for long-dated contracts that we do, and combining that with appropriate interest and
dividend assumptions, we would find the “proper” Black-Scholes premium for this contract to be $2.5 million.
To judge the rationality of that premium, we need to assess whether the S&P will be valued a century
from now at less than today. Certainly the dollar will then be worth a small fraction of its present value (at only
2% inflation it will be worth roughly 14¢). So that will be a factor pushing the stated value of the index higher.
Far more important, however, is that one hundred years of retained earnings will hugely increase the value of
most of the companies in the index. In the 20th Century, the Dow-Jones Industrial Average increased by about
175-fold, mainly because of this retained-earnings factor.
Considering everything, I believe the probability of a decline in the index over a one-hundred-year
period to be far less than 1%. But let’s use that figure and also assume that the most likely decline – should one
occur – is 50%. Under these assumptions, the mathematical expectation of loss on our contract would be $5
million ($1 billion X 1% X 50%).
But if we had received our theoretical premium of $2.5 million up front, we would have only had to
invest it at 0.7% compounded annually to cover this loss expectancy. Everything earned above that would have
been profit. Would you like to borrow money for 100 years at a 0.7% rate?
Let’s look at my example from a worst-case standpoint. Remember that 99% of the time we would pay
nothing if my assumptions are correct. But even in the worst case among the remaining 1% of possibilities – that
is, one assuming a total loss of $1 billion – our borrowing cost would come to only 6.2%. Clearly, either my
assumptions are crazy or the formula is inappropriate.

20

The ridiculous premium that Black-Scholes dictates in my extreme example is caused by the inclusion
of volatility in the formula and by the fact that volatility is determined by how much stocks have moved around
in some past period of days, months or years. This metric is simply irrelevant in estimating the probabilityweighted range of values of American business 100 years from now. (Imagine, if you will, getting a quote every
day on a farm from a manic-depressive neighbor and then using the volatility calculated from these changing
quotes as an important ingredient in an equation that predicts a probability-weighted range of values for the farm
a century from now.)
Though historical volatility is a useful – but far from foolproof – concept in valuing short-term options,
its utility diminishes rapidly as the duration of the option lengthens. In my opinion, the valuations that the BlackScholes formula now place on our long-term put options overstate our liability, though the overstatement will
diminish as the contracts approach maturity.
Even so, we will continue to use Black-Scholes when we are estimating our financial-statement
liability for long-term equity puts. The formula represents conventional wisdom and any substitute that I might
offer would engender extreme skepticism. That would be perfectly understandable: CEOs who have concocted
their own valuations for esoteric financial instruments have seldom erred on the side of conservatism. That club
of optimists is one that Charlie and I have no desire to join.
The Annual Meeting
Our meeting this year will be held on Saturday, May 2nd. As always, the doors will open at the Qwest
Center at 7 a.m., and a new Berkshire movie will be shown at 8:30. At 9:30 we will go directly to the
question-and-answer period, which (with a break for lunch at the Qwest’s stands) will last until 3:00. Then, after
a short recess, Charlie and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:15. If you decide to leave during the day’s
question periods, please do so while Charlie is talking.
The best reason to exit, of course, is to shop. We will help you do that by filling the 194,300-squarefoot hall that adjoins the meeting area with the products of Berkshire subsidiaries. Last year, the 31,000 people