recorded as costs in earlier years, and 2) a “desirable” charge we incur annually for retroactive insurance (see
the next section for more about these items). These costs totaled $1.75 billion, or about 4.6% of float.
Fortunately, our overall underwriting experience on 2002 business was excellent, which allowed us, even
after the charges noted, to approach a no-cost result.
Absent a megacatastrophe, I expect our cost of float in 2003 to again be very low – perhaps even less
than zero. In the rundown of our insurance operations that follows, you will see why I’m optimistic that, over
time, our underwriting results will both surpass those achieved by the industry and deliver us investable funds
at minimal cost.
Insurance Operations
If our insurance operations are to generate low-cost float over time, they must: (a) underwrite with
unwavering discipline; (b) reserve conservatively; and (c) avoid an aggregation of exposures that would allow
a supposedly “impossible” incident to threaten their solvency. All of our major insurance businesses, with
one exception, have regularly met those tests.
The exception is General Re, and there was much to do at that company last year to get it up to
snuff. I’m delighted to report that under Joe Brandon’s leadership, and with yeoman assistance by Tad
Montross, enormous progress has been made on each of the fronts described.
When I agreed in 1998 to merge Berkshire with Gen Re, I thought that company stuck to the three
rules I’ve enumerated. I had studied the operation for decades and had observed underwriting discipline that
was consistent and reserving that was conservative. At merger time, I detected no slippage in Gen Re’s
standards.
I was dead wrong. Gen Re’s culture and practices had substantially changed and unbeknownst to
management – and to me – the company was grossly mispricing its current business. In addition, Gen Re had
accumulated an aggregation of risks that would have been fatal had, say, terrorists detonated several largescale nuclear bombs in an attack on the U.S. A disaster of that scope was highly improbable, of course, but it
is up to insurers to limit their risks in a manner that leaves their finances rock-solid if the “impossible”
happens. Indeed, had Gen Re remained independent, the World Trade Center attack alone would have
threatened the company’s existence.
When the WTC disaster occurred, it exposed weaknesses in Gen Re’s operations that I should have
detected earlier. But I was lucky: Joe and Tad were on hand, freshly endowed with increased authority and
eager to rapidly correct the errors of the past. They knew what to do – and they did it.
It takes time for insurance policies to run off, however, and 2002 was well along before we managed
to reduce our aggregation of nuclear, chemical and biological risk (NCB) to a tolerable level. That problem is
now behind us.
On another front, Gen Re’s underwriting attitude has been dramatically altered: The entire
organization now understands that we wish to write only properly-priced business, whatever the effect on
volume. Joe and Tad judge themselves only by Gen Re’s underwriting profitability. Size simply doesn’t
count.
Finally, we are making every effort to get our reserving right. If we fail at that, we can’t know our
true costs. And any insurer that has no idea what its costs are is heading for big trouble.

8

At yearend 2001, General Re attempted to reserve adequately for all losses that had occurred prior to
that date and were not yet paid – but we failed badly. Therefore the company’s 2002 underwriting results
were penalized by an additional $1.31 billion that we recorded to correct the estimation mistakes of earlier
years. When I review the reserving errors that have been uncovered at General Re, a line from a country song
seems apt: “I wish I didn’t know now what I didn’t know then.”
I can promise you that our top priority going forward is to avoid inadequate reserving. But I can’t
guarantee success. The natural tendency of most casualty-insurance managers is to underreserve, and they
must have a particular mindset – which, it may surprise you, has nothing to do with actuarial expertise – if
they are to overcome this devastating bias. Additionally, a reinsurer faces far more difficulties in reserving
properly than does a primary insurer. Nevertheless, at Berkshire, we have generally been successful in our
reserving, and we are determined to be at General Re as well.
In summary, I believe General Re is now well positioned to deliver huge amounts of no-cost float to
Berkshire and that its sink-the-ship catastrophe risk has been eliminated. The company still possesses the
important competitive strengths that I’ve outlined in the past. And it gained another highly significant
advantage last year when each of its three largest worldwide competitors, previously rated AAA, was
demoted by at least one rating agency. Among the giants, General Re, rated AAA across-the-board, is now in
a class by itself in respect to financial strength.
No attribute is more important. Recently, in contrast, one of the world’s largest reinsurers – a
company regularly recommended to primary insurers by leading brokers – has all but ceased paying claims,
including those both valid and due. This company owes many billions of dollars to hundreds of primary
insurers who now face massive write-offs. “Cheap” reinsurance is a fool’s bargain: When an insurer lays out
money today in exchange for a reinsurer’s promise to pay a decade or two later, it’s dangerous – and possibly
life-threatening – for the insurer to deal with any but the strongest reinsurer around.
Berkshire shareholders owe Joe and Tad a huge thank you for their accomplishments in 2002. They
worked harder during the year than I would wish for anyone – and it is paying off.
************
At GEICO, everything went so well in 2002 that we should pinch ourselves. Growth was
substantial, profits were outstanding, policyholder retention was up and sales productivity jumped
significantly. These trends continue in early 2003.
Thank Tony Nicely for all of this. As anyone who knows him will attest, Tony has been in love with
GEICO for 41 years – ever since he went to work for the company at 18 – and his results reflect this passion.
He is proud of the money we save policyholders – about $1 billion annually versus what other insurers, on
average, would have charged them. He is proud of the service we provide these policyholders: In a key
industry survey, GEICO was recently ranked above all major competitors. He is proud of his 19,162
associates, who last year were awarded profit-sharing payments equal to 19% of their base salary because of
the splendid results they achieved. And he is proud of the growing profits he delivers to Berkshire
shareholders.
GEICO took in $2.9 billion in premiums when Berkshire acquired full ownership in 1996. Last
year, its volume was $6.9 billion, with plenty of growth to come. Particularly promising is the company’s
Internet operation, whose new business grew by 75% last year. Check us out at GEICO.com (or call 800847-7536). In most states, shareholders get a special 8% discount.
Here’s one footnote to GEICO’s 2002 earnings that underscores the need for insurers to do business
with only the strongest of reinsurers. In 1981-1983, the managers then running GEICO decided to try their
hand at writing commercial umbrella and product liability insurance. The risks seemed modest: the company
took in only $3,051,000 from this line and used almost all of it – $2,979,000 – to buy reinsurance in order to
limit its losses. GEICO was left with a paltry $72,000 as compensation for the minor portion of the risk that
it retained. But this small bite of the apple was more than enough to make the experience memorable.
GEICO’s losses from this venture now total a breathtaking $94.1 million or about 130,000% of the net
premium it received. Of the total loss, uncollectable receivables from deadbeat reinsurers account for no less
than $90.3 million (including $19 million charged in 2002). So much for “cheap” reinsurance.
************

9

Ajit Jain’s reinsurance division was the major reason our float cost us so little last year. If we ever
put a photo in a Berkshire annual report, it will be of Ajit. In color!
Ajit’s operation has amassed $13.4 billion of float, more than all but a handful of insurers have ever
built up. He accomplished this from a standing start in 1986, and even now has a workforce numbering only
20. And, most important, he has produced underwriting profits.
His profits are particularly remarkable if you factor in some accounting arcana that I am about to lay
on you. So prepare to eat your spinach (or, alternatively, if debits and credits aren’t your thing, skip the next
two paragraphs).
Ajit’s 2002 underwriting profit of $534 million came after his operation recognized a charge of $428
million attributable to “retroactive” insurance he has written over the years. In this line of business, we
assume from another insurer the obligation to pay up to a specified amount for losses they have already