Chicago so that he could stay active in the party. To that end, I’ve already selected a “power spot” at the office for my
urn.
************
Our financial growth has been matched by employment growth: We now have 47,566 on our payroll, with the
acquisitions of 1998 bringing 7,074 employees to us and internal growth adding another 2,500. To balance this gain

4

of 9,500 in hands-on employees, we have enlarged the staff at world headquarters from 12 to 12.8. (The .8 doesn’t refer
to me or Charlie: We have a new person in accounting, working four days a week.) Despite this alarming trend toward
corporate bloat, our after-tax overhead last year was about $3.5 million, or well under one basis point (.01 of 1%) of the
value of the assets we manage.
Taxes
One beneficiary of our increased size has been the U.S. Treasury. The federal income taxes that Berkshire and
General Re have paid, or will soon pay, in respect to 1998 earnings total $2.7 billion. That means we shouldered all of
the U.S. Government’s expenses for more than a half-day.
Follow that thought a little further: If only 625 other U.S. taxpayers had paid the Treasury as much as we and
General Re did last year, no one else — neither corporations nor 270 million citizens — would have had to pay federal
income taxes or any other kind of federal tax (for example, social security or estate taxes). Our shareholders can truly
say that they “gave at the office.”
Writing checks to the IRS that include strings of zeros does not bother Charlie or me. Berkshire as a corporation,
and we as individuals, have prospered in America as we would have in no other country. Indeed, if we lived in some
other part of the world and completely escaped taxes, I’m sure we would be worse off financially (and in many other ways
as well). Overall, we feel extraordinarily lucky to have been dealt a hand in life that enables us to write large checks to
the government rather than one requiring the government to regularly write checks to us — say, because we are disabled
or unemployed.
Berkshire’s tax situation is sometimes misunderstood. First, capital gains have no special attraction for us: A
corporation pays a 35% rate on taxable income, whether it comes from capital gains or from ordinary operations. This
means that Berkshire’s tax on a long-term capital gain is fully 75% higher than what an individual would pay on an
identical gain.
Some people harbor another misconception, believing that we can exclude 70% of all dividends we receive from
our taxable income. Indeed, the 70% rate applies to most corporations and also applies to Berkshire in cases where we
hold stocks in non-insurance subsidiaries. However, almost all of our equity investments are owned by our insurance
companies, and in that case the exclusion is 59.5%. That still means a dollar of dividends is considerably more valuable
to us than a dollar of ordinary income, but not to the degree often assumed.
************
Berkshire truly went all out for the Treasury last year. In connection with the General Re merger, we wrote a $30
million check to the government to pay an SEC fee tied to the new shares created by the deal. We understand that this
payment set an SEC record. Charlie and I are enormous admirers of what the Commission has accomplished for
American investors. We would rather, however, have found another way to show our admiration.
GEICO (1-800-847-7536)
Combine a great idea with a great manager and you’re certain to obtain a great result. That mix is alive and well
at GEICO. The idea is low-cost auto insurance, made possible by direct-to-customer marketing, and the manager is Tony
Nicely. Quite simply, there is no one in the business world who could run GEICO better than Tony does. His instincts
are unerring, his energy is boundless, and his execution is flawless. While maintaining underwriting discipline, Tony
is building an organization that is gaining market share at an accelerating rate.
This pace has been encouraged by our compensation policies. The direct writing of insurance — that is, without
there being an agent or broker between the insurer and its policyholder — involves a substantial front-end investment.
First-year business is therefore unprofitable in a major way. At GEICO, we do not wish this cost to deter our associates
from the aggressive pursuit of new business — which, as it renews, will deliver significant profits — so we leave it out
of our compensation formulas. What’s included then? We base 50% of our associates’ bonuses and profit sharing on

5

the earnings of our “seasoned” book, meaning policies that have been with us for more than a year. The other 50% is
tied to growth in policyholders — and here we have stepped on the gas.
In 1995, the year prior to its acquisition by Berkshire, GEICO spent $33 million on marketing and had 652
telephone counselors. Last year the company spent $143 million, and the counselor count grew to 2,162. The effects
that these efforts had at the company are shown by the new business and in-force figures below:

Years

New Auto
Policies*

Auto Policies
In-Force*

1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998

1,354,882
1,396,217
1,461,608
1,617,669
1,913,176
1,317,761

2,011,055
2,147,549
2,310,037
2,543,699
2,949,439
3,562,644

* “Voluntary” only; excludes assigned risks and the like.
In 1999, we will again increase our marketing budget, spending at least $190 million. In fact, there is no limit to
what Berkshire is willing to invest in GEICO’s new-business activity, as long as we can concurrently build the
infrastructure the company needs to properly serve its policyholders.
Because of the first-year costs, companies that are concerned about quarterly or annual earnings would shy from
similar investments, no matter how intelligent these might be in terms of building long-term value. Our calculus is
different: We simply measure whether we are creating more than a dollar of value per dollar spent — and if that
calculation is favorable, the more dollars we spend the happier I am.
There is far more to GEICO’s success, of course, than low prices and a torrent of advertising. The handling of
claims must also be fair, fast and friendly — and ours is. Here’s an impartial scorecard on how we shape up: In New
York, our largest-volume state, the Insurance Department recently reported that GEICO’s complaint ratio in 1997 was
not only the lowest of the five largest auto insurers but was also less than half the average of the other four.
GEICO’s 1998 profit margin of 6.7% was better than we had anticipated — and, indeed, better than we wished.
Our results reflect an industry-wide phenomenon: In recent years, both the frequency of auto accidents and their severity
have unexpectedly declined. We responded by reducing rates 3.3% in 1998, and we will reduce them still more in 1999.
These moves will soon bring profit margins down — at the least to 4%, which is our target, and perhaps considerably
lower. Whatever the case, we believe that our margins will continue to be much better than those of the industry.
With GEICO’s growth and profitability both outstanding in 1998, so also were its profit-sharing and bonus
payments. Indeed, the profit-sharing payment of $103 million or 32.3% of salary — which went to all 9,313 associates
who had been with us for more than a year — may well have been the highest percentage payment at any large company
in the country. (In addition, associates benefit from a company-funded pension plan.)
The 32.3% may turn out to be a high-water mark, given that the profitability component in our profit-sharing
calculation is almost certain to come down in the future. The growth component, though, may well increase. Overall,
we expect the two benchmarks together to dictate very significant profit-sharing payments for decades to come. For our
associates, growth pays off in other ways as well: Last year we promoted 4,612 people.
Impressive as the GEICO figures are, we have far more to do. Our market share improved significantly in 1998
— but only from 3% to 3½%. For every policyholder we now have, there are another ten who should be giving us their
business.
Some of you who are reading this may be in that category. About 40% of those who check our rates find that they
can save money by doing business with us. The proportion is not 100% because insurers differ in their underwriting
judgements, with some giving more credit than we do to drivers who live in certain geographical areas or work at certain
occupations. We believe, however, that we more frequently offer the low price than does any other national carrier

6

selling insurance to all comers. Furthermore, in 40 states we can offer a special discount — usually 8% — to our
shareholders. So give us a call and check us out.
************
You may think that one commercial in this section is enough. But I have another to present, this one directed at