************
The good news: At 76, I feel terrific and, according to all measurable indicators, am in excellent
health. It’s amazing what Cherry Coke and hamburgers will do for a fellow.
Some Changes on Berkshire’s Board
The composition of our board will change in two ways this spring. One change will involve the
Chace family, which has been connected to Berkshire and its predecessor companies for more than a
century. In 1929, the first Malcolm G. Chace played an important role in merging four New England
textile operations into Berkshire Fine Spinning Associates. That company merged with Hathaway
Manufacturing in 1955 to form Berkshire Hathaway, and Malcolm G. Chace, Jr. became its chairman.
Early in 1965, Malcolm arranged for Buffett Partnership Ltd. to buy a key block of Berkshire
shares and welcomed us as the new controlling shareholder of the company. Malcolm continued as nonexecutive chairman until 1969. He was both a wonderful gentleman and helpful partner.
That description also fits his son, Malcolm “Kim” Chace, who succeeded his father on Berkshire’s
board in 1992. But last year Kim, now actively and successfully running a community bank that he
founded in 1996, suggested that we find a younger person to replace him on our board. We have done so,
and Kim will step down as a director at the annual meeting. I owe much to the Chaces and wish to thank
Kim for his many years of service to Berkshire.
In selecting a new director, we were guided by our long-standing criteria, which are that board
members be owner-oriented, business-savvy, interested and truly independent. I say “truly” because many
directors who are now deemed independent by various authorities and observers are far from that, relying
heavily as they do on directors’ fees to maintain their standard of living. These payments, which come in
many forms, often range between $150,000 and $250,000 annually, compensation that may approach or
even exceed all other income of the “independent” director. And – surprise, surprise – director
compensation has soared in recent years, pushed up by recommendations from corporate America’s
favorite consultant, Ratchet, Ratchet and Bingo. (The name may be phony, but the action it conveys is
not.)
Charlie and I believe our four criteria are essential if directors are to do their job – which, by law,
is to faithfully represent owners. Yet these criteria are usually ignored. Instead, consultants and CEOs
seeking board candidates will often say, “We’re looking for a woman,” or “a Hispanic,” or “someone from
abroad,” or what have you. It sometimes sounds as if the mission is to stock Noah’s ark. Over the years
I’ve been queried many times about potential directors and have yet to hear anyone ask, “Does he think like
an intelligent owner?”
The questions I instead get would sound ridiculous to someone seeking candidates for, say, a
football team, or an arbitration panel or a military command. In those cases, the selectors would look for
people who had the specific talents and attitudes that were required for a specialized job. At Berkshire, we
are in the specialized activity of running a business well, and therefore we seek business judgment.
That’s exactly what we’ve found in Susan Decker, CFO of Yahoo!, who will join our board at the
annual meeting. We are lucky to have her: She scores very high on our four criteria and additionally, at 44,
is young – an attribute, as you may have noticed, that your Chairman has long lacked. We will seek more
young directors in the future, but never by slighting the four qualities that we insist upon.

18

This and That
Berkshire will pay about $4.4 billion in federal income tax on its 2006 earnings. In its last fiscal
year the U.S. Government spent $2.6 trillion, or about $7 billion per day. Thus, for more than half of one
day, Berkshire picked up the tab for all federal expenditures, ranging from Social Security and Medicare
payments to the cost of our armed services. Had there been only 600 taxpayers like Berkshire, no one else
in America would have needed to pay any federal income or payroll taxes.
************
Our federal return last year, we should add, ran to 9,386 pages. To handle this filing, state and
foreign tax returns, a myriad of SEC requirements, and all of the other matters involved in running
Berkshire, we have gone all the way up to 19 employees at World Headquarters.
This crew occupies 9,708 square feet of space, and Charlie – at World Headquarters West in Los
Angeles – uses another 655 square feet. Our home-office payroll, including benefits and counting both
locations, totaled $3,531,978 last year. We’re careful when spending your money.
Corporate bigwigs often complain about government spending, criticizing bureaucrats who they
say spend taxpayers’ money differently from how they would if it were their own. But sometimes the
financial behavior of executives will also vary based on whose wallet is getting depleted. Here’s an
illustrative tale from my days at Salomon. In the 1980s the company had a barber, Jimmy by name, who
came in weekly to give free haircuts to the top brass. A manicurist was also on tap. Then, because of a
cost-cutting drive, patrons were told to pay their own way. One top executive (not the CEO) who had
previously visited Jimmy weekly went immediately to a once-every-three-weeks schedule.
************
Every now and then Charlie and I catch on early to a tide-like trend, one brimming over with
commercial promise. For example, though American Airlines (with its “miles”) and American Express
(with credit card points) are credited as being trailblazers in granting customers “rewards,” Charlie and I
were far ahead of them in spotting the appeal of this powerful idea. Excited by our insight, the two of us
jumped into the reward business way back in 1970 by buying control of a trading stamp operation, Blue
Chip Stamps. In that year, Blue Chip had sales of $126 million, and its stamps papered California.
In 1970, indeed, about 60 billion of our stamps were licked by savers, pasted into books, and taken
to Blue Chip redemption stores. Our catalog of rewards was 116 pages thick and chock full of tantalizing
items. When I was told that even certain brothels and mortuaries gave stamps to their patrons, I felt I had
finally found a sure thing.
Well, not quite. From the day Charlie and I stepped into the Blue Chip picture, the business went
straight downhill. By 1980, sales had fallen to $19.4 million. And, by 1990, sales were bumping along at
$1.5 million. No quitter, I redoubled my managerial efforts.
Sales then fell another 98%. Last year, in Berkshire’s $98 billion of revenues, all of $25,920 (no
zeros omitted) came from Blue Chip. Ever hopeful, Charlie and I soldier on.
************
I mentioned last year that in my service on 19 corporate boards (not counting Berkshire or other
controlled companies), I have been the Typhoid Mary of compensation committees. At only one company
was I assigned to comp committee duty, and then I was promptly outvoted on the most crucial decision that
we faced. My ostracism has been peculiar, considering that I certainly haven’t lacked experience in setting
CEO pay. At Berkshire, after all, I am a one-man compensation committee who determines the salaries
and incentives for the CEOs of around 40 significant operating businesses.

19

How much time does this aspect of my job take? Virtually none. How many CEOs have
voluntarily left us for other jobs in our 42-year history? Precisely none.
Berkshire employs many different incentive arrangements, with their terms depending on such
elements as the economic potential or capital intensity of a CEO’s business. Whatever the compensation
arrangement, though, I try to keep it both simple and fair.
When we use incentives – and these can be large – they are always tied to the operating results for
which a given CEO has authority. We issue no lottery tickets that carry payoffs unrelated to business
performance. If a CEO bats .300, he gets paid for being a .300 hitter, even if circumstances outside of his
control cause Berkshire to perform poorly. And if he bats .150, he doesn’t get a payoff just because the
successes of others have enabled Berkshire to prosper mightily. An example: We now own $61 billion of
equities at Berkshire, whose value can easily rise or fall by 10% in a given year. Why in the world should
the pay of our operating executives be affected by such $6 billion swings, however important the gain or
loss may be for shareholders?
You’ve read loads about CEOs who have received astronomical compensation for mediocre
results. Much less well-advertised is the fact that America’s CEOs also generally live the good life. Many,
it should be emphasized, are exceptionally able, and almost all work far more than 40 hours a week. But
they are usually treated like royalty in the process. (And we’re certainly going to keep it that way at
Berkshire. Though Charlie still favors sackcloth and ashes, I prefer to be spoiled rotten. Berkshire owns