worth.  The impact could well be substantial.  Nevertheless, what 
is important in the end is the tax rate at the time we sell 
securities, when unrealized appreciation becomes realized.

     Another major accounting change, whose implementation is 
required by January 1, 1993, mandates that businesses recognize 
their present-value liability for post-retirement health benefits. 
Though GAAP has previously required recognition of pensions to be 
paid in the future, it has illogically ignored the costs that 
companies will then have to bear for health benefits.  The new rule 
will force many companies to record a huge balance-sheet liability 
(and a consequent reduction in net worth) and also henceforth to 
recognize substantially higher costs when they are calculating 
annual profits.

     In making acquisitions, Charlie and I have tended to avoid 
companies with significant post-retirement liabilities.  As a 
result, Berkshire's present liability and future costs for post-
retirement health benefits - though we now have 22,000 employees - 
are inconsequential.  I need to admit, though, that we had a near 
miss:  In 1982 I made a huge mistake in committing to buy a company 
burdened by extraordinary post-retirement health obligations.  
Luckily, though, the transaction fell through for reasons beyond 
our control.  Reporting on this episode in the 1982 annual report, 
I said:  "If we were to introduce graphics to this report, 
illustrating favorable business developments of the past year, two 
blank pages depicting this blown deal would be the appropriate 
centerfold."  Even so, I wasn't expecting things to get as bad as 
they did.  Another buyer appeared, the business soon went bankrupt 
and was shut down, and thousands of workers found those bountiful 
health-care promises to be largely worthless.

     In recent decades, no CEO would have dreamed of going to his 
board with the proposition that his company become an insurer of 
uncapped post-retirement health benefits that other corporations 
chose to install.  A CEO didn't need to be a medical expert to know 
that lengthening life expectancies and soaring health costs would 
guarantee an insurer a financial battering from such a business.  
Nevertheless, many a manager blithely committed his own company to 
a self-insurance plan embodying precisely the same promises - and 
thereby doomed his shareholders to suffer the inevitable 
consequences.  In health-care, open-ended promises have created 
open-ended liabilities that in a few cases loom so large as to 
threaten the global competitiveness of major American industries.

     I believe part of the reason for this reckless behavior was 
that accounting rules did not, for so long, require the booking of 
post-retirement health costs as they were incurred.  Instead, the 
rules allowed cash-basis accounting, which vastly understated the 
liabilities that were building up.  In effect, the attitude of both 
managements and their accountants toward these liabilities was 
"out-of-sight, out-of-mind."  Ironically, some of these same 
managers would be quick to criticize Congress for employing "cash-
basis" thinking in respect to Social Security promises or other 
programs creating future liabilities of size.

     Managers thinking about accounting issues should never forget 
one of Abraham Lincoln's favorite riddles:  "How many legs does a 
dog have if you call his tail a leg?"  The answer:  "Four, because 
calling a tail a leg does not make it a leg."  It behooves managers 
to remember that Abe's right even if an auditor is willing to 
certify that the tail is a leg.

                   * * * * * * * * * * * *

     The most egregious case of let's-not-face-up-to-reality 
behavior by executives and accountants has occurred in the world of 
stock options.  In Berkshire's 1985 annual report, I laid out my 
opinions about the use and misuse of options.  But even when 
options are structured properly, they are accounted for in ways 
that make no sense.  The lack of logic is not accidental:  For 
decades, much of the business world has waged war against 
accounting rulemakers, trying to keep the costs of stock options 
from being reflected in the profits of the corporations that issue 
them.

     Typically, executives have argued that options are hard to 
value and that therefore their costs should be ignored.  At other 
times managers have said that assigning a cost to options would 
injure small start-up businesses.  Sometimes they have even 
solemnly declared that "out-of-the-money" options (those with an 
exercise price equal to or above the current market price) have no 
value when they are issued.

     Oddly, the Council of Institutional Investors has chimed in 
with a variation on that theme, opining that options should not be 
viewed as a cost because they "aren't dollars out of a company's 
coffers."  I see this line of reasoning as offering exciting 
possibilities to American corporations for instantly improving 
their reported profits.  For example, they could eliminate the cost 
of insurance by paying for it with options.  So if you're a CEO and 
subscribe to this "no cash-no cost" theory of accounting, I'll make 
you an offer you can't refuse:  Give us a call at Berkshire and we 
will happily sell you insurance in exchange for a bundle of long-
term options on your company's stock.

     Shareholders should understand that companies incur costs when 
they deliver something of value to another party and not just when 
cash changes hands.  Moreover, it is both silly and cynical to say 
that an important item of cost should not be recognized simply 
because it can't be quantified with pinpoint precision.  Right now, 
accounting abounds with imprecision.  After all, no manager or 
auditor knows how long a 747 is going to last, which means he also 
does not know what the yearly depreciation charge for the plane 
should be.  No one knows with any certainty what a bank's annual 
loan loss charge ought to be.  And the estimates of losses that 
property-casualty companies make are notoriously inaccurate.

     Does this mean that these important items of cost should be 
ignored simply because they can't be quantified with absolute 
accuracy?  Of course not.  Rather, these costs should be estimated 
by honest and experienced people and then recorded.  When you get 
right down to it, what other item of major but hard-to-precisely-
calculate cost - other, that is, than stock options - does the 
accounting profession say should be ignored in the calculation of 
earnings?

     Moreover, options are just not that difficult to value.  
Admittedly, the difficulty is increased by the fact that the 
options given to executives are restricted in various ways.  These 
restrictions affect value.  They do not, however, eliminate it.  In 
fact, since I'm in the mood for offers, I'll make one to any 
executive who is granted a restricted option, even though it may be 
out of the money:  On the day of issue, Berkshire will pay him or 
her a substantial sum for the right to any future gain he or she 
realizes on the option.  So if you find a CEO who says his newly-
issued options have little or no value, tell him to try us out.  In 
truth, we have far more confidence in our ability to determine an 
appropriate price to pay for an option than we have in our ability 
to determine the proper depreciation rate for our corporate jet.

     It seems to me that the realities of stock options can be 
summarized quite simply:  If options aren't a form of compensation, 
what are they?  If compensation isn't an expense, what is it?  And, 
if expenses shouldn't go into the calculation of earnings, where in 
the world should they go?

     The accounting profession and the SEC should be shamed by the 
fact that they have long let themselves be muscled by business 
executives on the option-accounting issue.  Additionally, the 
lobbying that executives engage in may have an unfortunate by-
product:  In my opinion, the business elite risks losing its 
credibility on issues of significance to society - about which it 
may have much of value to say - when it advocates the incredible on 
issues of significance to itself.
Miscellaneous
We have two pieces of regrettable news this year.  First, 
Gladys Kaiser, my friend and assistant for twenty-five years, will 
give up the latter post after the 1993 annual meeting, though she 
will certainly remain my friend forever.  Gladys and I have been a 
team, and though I knew her retirement was coming, it is still a 
jolt.

     Secondly, in September, Verne McKenzie relinquished his role 
as Chief Financial Officer after a 30-year association with me that 
began when he was the outside auditor of Buffett Partnership, Ltd. 
Verne is staying on as a consultant, and though that job 
description is often a euphemism, in this case it has real meaning. 
I expect Verne to continue to fill an important role at Berkshire 
but to do so at his own pace.  Marc Hamburg, Verne's understudy for 
five years, has succeeded him as Chief Financial Officer.

     I recall that one woman, upon being asked to describe the 
perfect spouse, specified an archeologist: "The older I get," she 
said, "the more he'll be interested in me."  She would have liked 
my tastes:  I treasure those extraordinary Berkshire managers who 
are working well past normal retirement age and who concomitantly 