when you came and for you to have a good time while in Omaha.
All told, we expect at least 54 questions, which will allow for six from each analyst and journalist and
for 18 from the audience. The questioners from the audience will be chosen by means of 11 drawings that will
take place at 8:15 a.m. on the morning of the annual meeting. Each of the 11 microphones installed in the arena
and main overflow room will host, so to speak, a drawing.

28

While I’m on the subject of our owners’ gaining knowledge, let me remind you that Charlie and I
believe all shareholders should simultaneously have access to new information that Berkshire releases and, if
possible, should also have adequate time to digest and analyze it before any trading takes place. That’s why we
try to issue financial data late on Fridays or early on Saturdays and why our annual meeting is always held on a
Saturday (a day that also eases traffic and parking problems).
We do not follow the common practice of talking one-on-one with large institutional investors or
analysts, treating them instead as we do all other shareholders. There is no one more important to us than the
shareholder of limited means who trusts us with a substantial portion of his or her savings. As I run the company
day-to-day – and as I write this letter – that is the shareholder whose image is in my mind.
************
For good reason, I regularly extol the accomplishments of our operating managers. They are truly
All-Stars who run their businesses as if they were the only asset owned by their families. I also believe the
mindset of our managers to be as shareholder-oriented as can be found in the universe of large publicly-owned
companies. Most of our managers have no financial need to work. The joy of hitting business “home runs” means
as much to them as their paycheck.
Equally important, however, are the men and women who work with me at our corporate office. This
team efficiently deals with a multitude of SEC and other regulatory requirements, files a 30,450-page Federal
income tax return, oversees the filing of 3,580 state tax returns, responds to countless shareholder and media
inquiries, gets out the annual report, prepares for the country’s largest annual meeting, coordinates the Board’s
activities, fact-checks this letter – and the list goes on and on.
They handle all of these business tasks cheerfully and with unbelievable efficiency, making my life easy
and pleasant. Their efforts go beyond activities strictly related to Berkshire: Last year, for example, they dealt
with the 40 universities (selected from 200 applicants) who sent students to Omaha for a Q&A day with me.
They also handle all kinds of requests that I receive, arrange my travel, and even get me hamburgers and French
fries (smothered in Heinz ketchup, of course) for lunch. In addition, they cheerfully pitch in to help Carrie Sova –
our talented ringmaster at the annual meeting – deliver an interesting and entertaining weekend for our
shareholders. They are proud to work for Berkshire, and I am proud of them.
I’m a lucky guy, very fortunate in being surrounded by this excellent staff, a team of highly-talented
operating managers and a boardroom of very wise and experienced directors. Come to Omaha – the cradle of
capitalism – on May 6th and meet the Berkshire Bunch. All of us look forward to seeing you.

February 25, 2017
