---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2019
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2019ar/2019ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 246 - 901
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Berkshire earned $81.4 billion in 2019 according to generally accepted accounting principles (commonly
called “GAAP”). The components of that figure are $24 billion of operating earnings, $3.7 billion of realized capital
gains and a $53.7 billion gain from an increase in the amount of net unrealized capital gains that exist in the stocks
we hold. Each of those components of earnings is stated on an after-tax basis.
That $53.7 billion gain requires comment. It resulted from a new GAAP rule, imposed in 2018, that requires
a company holding equity securities to include in earnings the net change in the unrealized gains and losses of those
securities. As we stated in last year’s letter, neither Charlie Munger, my partner in managing Berkshire, nor I agree
with that rule.
The adoption of the rule by the accounting profession, in fact, was a monumental shift in its own thinking.
Before 2018, GAAP insisted – with an exception for companies whose business was to trade securities – that
unrealized gains within a portfolio of stocks were never to be included in earnings and unrealized losses were to be
included only if they were deemed “other than temporary.” Now, Berkshire must enshrine in each quarter’s bottom
line – a key item of news for many investors, analysts and commentators – every up and down movement of the stocks
it owns, however capricious those fluctuations may be.
Berkshire’s 2018 and 2019 years glaringly illustrate the argument we have with the new rule. In 2018, a down
year for the stock market, our net unrealized gains decreased by $20.6 billion, and we therefore reported GAAP
earnings of only $4 billion. In 2019, rising stock prices increased net unrealized gains by the aforementioned $53.7
billion, pushing GAAP earnings to the $81.4 billion reported at the beginning of this letter. Those market gyrations
led to a crazy 1,900% increase in GAAP earnings!
Meanwhile, in what we might call the real world, as opposed to accounting-land, Berkshire’s equity holdings
averaged about $200 billion during the two years, and the intrinsic value of the stocks we own grew steadily and
substantially throughout the period.
Charlie and I urge you to focus on operating earnings – which were little changed in 2019 – and to ignore
both quarterly and annual gains or losses from investments, whether these are realized or unrealized.
Our advising that in no way diminishes the importance of these investments to Berkshire. Over time, Charlie
and I expect our equity holdings – as a group – to deliver major gains, albeit in an unpredictable and highly irregular
manner. To see why we are optimistic, move on to the next discussion.
The Power of Retained Earnings
In 1924, Edgar Lawrence Smith, an obscure economist and financial advisor, wrote Common Stocks as Long
Term Investments, a slim book that changed the investment world. Indeed, writing the book changed Smith himself,
forcing him to reassess his own investment beliefs.
Going in, he planned to argue that stocks would perform better than bonds during inflationary periods and
that bonds would deliver superior returns during deflationary times. That seemed sensible enough. But Smith was in
for a shock.

3

His book began, therefore, with a confession: “These studies are the record of a failure – the failure of facts
to sustain a preconceived theory.” Luckily for investors, that failure led Smith to think more deeply about how stocks
should be evaluated.
For the crux of Smith’s insight, I will quote an early reviewer of his book, none other than John Maynard
Keynes: “I have kept until last what is perhaps Mr. Smith’s most important, and is certainly his most novel, point.
Well-managed industrial companies do not, as a rule, distribute to the shareholders the whole of their earned profits.
In good years, if not in all years, they retain a part of their profits and put them back into the business. Thus there is
an element of compound interest (Keynes’ italics) operating in favour of a sound industrial investment. Over a period
of years, the real value of the property of a sound industrial is increasing at compound interest, quite apart from the
dividends paid out to the shareholders.”
And with that sprinkling of holy water, Smith was no longer obscure.
It’s difficult to understand why retained earnings were unappreciated by investors before Smith’s book was
published. After all, it was no secret that mind-boggling wealth had earlier been amassed by such titans as Carnegie,
Rockefeller and Ford, all of whom had retained a huge portion of their business earnings to fund growth and produce
ever-greater profits. Throughout America, also, there had long been small-time capitalists who became rich following
the same playbook.
Nevertheless, when business ownership was sliced into small pieces – “stocks” – buyers in the pre-Smith
years usually thought of their shares as a short-term gamble on market movements. Even at their best, stocks were
considered speculations. Gentlemen preferred bonds.
Though investors were slow to wise up, the math of retaining and reinvesting earnings is now well
understood. Today, school children learn what Keynes termed “novel”: combining savings with compound interest
works wonders.
************
At Berkshire, Charlie and I have long focused on using retained earnings advantageously. Sometimes this
job has been easy – at other times, more than difficult, particularly when we began working with huge and evergrowing sums of money.
In our deployment of the funds we retain, we first seek to invest in the many and diverse businesses we
already own. During the past decade, Berkshire’s depreciation charges have aggregated $65 billion whereas the
company’s internal investments in property, plant and equipment have totaled $121 billion. Reinvestment in
productive operational assets will forever remain our top priority.
In addition, we constantly seek to buy new businesses that meet three criteria. First, they must earn good
returns on the net tangible capital required in their operation. Second, they must be run by able and honest managers.
Finally, they must be available at a sensible price.
When we spot such businesses, our preference would be to buy 100% of them. But the opportunities to make
major acquisitions possessing our required attributes are rare. Far more often, a fickle stock market serves up
opportunities for us to buy large, but non-controlling, positions in publicly-traded companies that meet our standards.
Whichever way we go – controlled companies or only a major stake by way of the stock market – Berkshire’s
financial results from the commitment will in large part be determined by the future earnings of the business we have
purchased. Nonetheless, there is between the two investment approaches a hugely important accounting difference,
essential for you to understand.

4

In our controlled companies, (defined as those in which Berkshire owns more than 50% of the shares), the
earnings of each business flow directly into the operating earnings that we report to you. What you see is what you
get.
In the non-controlled companies, in which we own marketable stocks, only the dividends that Berkshire
receives are recorded in the operating earnings we report. The retained earnings? They’re working hard and creating
much added value, but not in a way that deposits those gains directly into Berkshire’s reported earnings.
At almost all major companies other than Berkshire, investors would not find what we’ll call this “nonrecognition of earnings” important. For us, however, it is a standout omission, of a magnitude that we lay out for you
below.
Here, we list our 10 largest stock-market holdings of businesses. The list distinguishes between their earnings
that are reported to you under GAAP accounting – these are the dividends Berkshire receives from those 10 investees
– and our share, so to speak, of the earnings the investees retain and put to work. Normally, those companies use
retained earnings to expand their business and increase its efficiency. Or sometimes they use those funds to repurchase
significant portions of their own stock, an act that enlarges Berkshire’s share of the company’s future earnings.

Company
American Express
Apple
Bank of America
Bank of New York Mellon
Coca-Cola
Delta Airlines
J.P. Morgan Chase
Moody’s
U.S. Bancorp
Wells Fargo

Yearend
Ownership

Berkshire’s Share (in millions)
Dividends(1)
Retained Earnings(2)

18.7%
5.7%
10.7%
9.0%
9.3%
11.0%
1.9%
13.1%
9.7%
8.4%

Total

$ 261
773
682
101
640
114
216
55
251
705

$ 998
2,519
2,167
288
194
416
476
137
407
730

$3,798

$8,332

(1) Based on current annual rate.
(2) Based on 2019 earnings minus common and preferred dividends paid.
Obviously, the realized gains we will eventually record from partially owning each of these companies will
not neatly correspond to “our” share of their retained earnings. Sometimes, alas, retentions produce nothing. But both
logic and our past experience indicate that from the group we will realize capital gains at least equal to – and probably
better than – the earnings of ours that they retained. (When we sell shares and realize gains, we will pay income tax on