years prior to 2008, however, America added more housing units than households. Inevitably, we
ended up with far too many units and the bubble popped with a violence that shook the entire economy.
That created still another problem for housing: Early in a recession, household formations slow, and in
2009 the decrease was dramatic.
That devastating supply/demand equation is now reversed: Every day we are creating more households
than housing units. People may postpone hitching up during uncertain times, but eventually hormones
take over. And while “doubling-up” may be the initial reaction of some during a recession, living with
in-laws can quickly lose its allure.
At our current annual pace of 600,000 housing starts – considerably less than the number of new
households being formed – buyers and renters are sopping up what’s left of the old oversupply. (This
process will run its course at different rates around the country; the supply-demand situation varies
widely by locale.) While this healing takes place, however, our housing-related companies sputter,
employing only 43,315 people compared to 58,769 in 2006. This hugely important sector of the
economy, which includes not only construction but everything that feeds off of it, remains in a
depression of its own. I believe this is the major reason a recovery in employment has so severely
lagged the steady and substantial comeback we have seen in almost all other sectors of our economy.
Wise monetary and fiscal policies play an important role in tempering recessions, but these tools don’t
create households nor eliminate excess housing units. Fortunately, demographics and our market
system will restore the needed balance – probably before long. When that day comes, we will again
build one million or more residential units annually. I believe pundits will be surprised at how far
unemployment drops once that happens. They will then reawake to what has been true since 1776:
America’s best days lie ahead.

Intrinsic Business Value
Charlie and I measure our performance by the rate of gain in Berkshire’s per-share intrinsic business
value. If our gain over time outstrips the performance of the S&P 500, we have earned our paychecks. If it
doesn’t, we are overpaid at any price.
We have no way to pinpoint intrinsic value. But we do have a useful, though considerably understated,
proxy for it: per-share book value. This yardstick is meaningless at most companies. At Berkshire, however,
book value very roughly tracks business values. That’s because the amount by which Berkshire’s intrinsic value
exceeds book value does not swing wildly from year to year, though it increases in most years. Over time, the
divergence will likely become ever more substantial in absolute terms, remaining reasonably steady, however, on
a percentage basis as both the numerator and denominator of the business-value/book-value equation increase.

5

We’ve regularly emphasized that our book-value performance is almost certain to outpace the S&P 500
in a bad year for the stock market and just as certainly will fall short in a strong up-year. The test is how we do
over time. Last year’s annual report included a table laying out results for the 42 five-year periods since we took
over at Berkshire in 1965 (i.e., 1965-69, 1966-70, etc.). All showed our book value beating the S&P, and our
string held for 2007-11. It will almost certainly snap, though, if the S&P 500 should put together a five-year
winning streak (which it may well be on its way to doing as I write this).
************
I also included two tables last year that set forth the key quantitative ingredients that will help you
estimate our per-share intrinsic value. I won’t repeat the full discussion here; you can find it reproduced on
pages 99-100. To update the tables shown there, our per-share investments in 2011 increased 4% to $98,366, and
our pre-tax earnings from businesses other than insurance and investments increased 18% to $6,990 per share.
Charlie and I like to see gains in both areas, but our primary focus is on building operating earnings. Over
time, the businesses we currently own should increase their aggregate earnings, and we hope also to purchase some
large operations that will give us a further boost. We now have eight subsidiaries that would each be included in the
Fortune 500 were they stand-alone companies. That leaves only 492 to go. My task is clear, and I’m on the prowl.
Share Repurchases
Last September, we announced that Berkshire would repurchase its shares at a price of up to 110% of book
value. We were in the market for only a few days – buying $67 million of stock – before the price advanced beyond
our limit. Nonetheless, the general importance of share repurchases suggests I should focus for a bit on the subject.
Charlie and I favor repurchases when two conditions are met: first, a company has ample funds to take
care of the operational and liquidity needs of its business; second, its stock is selling at a material discount to the
company’s intrinsic business value, conservatively calculated.
We have witnessed many bouts of repurchasing that failed our second test. Sometimes, of course,
infractions – even serious ones – are innocent; many CEOs never stop believing their stock is cheap. In other
instances, a less benign conclusion seems warranted. It doesn’t suffice to say that repurchases are being made to
offset the dilution from stock issuances or simply because a company has excess cash. Continuing shareholders
are hurt unless shares are purchased below intrinsic value. The first law of capital allocation – whether the
money is slated for acquisitions or share repurchases – is that what is smart at one price is dumb at another. (One
CEO who always stresses the price/value factor in repurchase decisions is Jamie Dimon at J.P. Morgan; I
recommend that you read his annual letter.)
Charlie and I have mixed emotions when Berkshire shares sell well below intrinsic value. We like
making money for continuing shareholders, and there is no surer way to do that than by buying an asset – our
own stock – that we know to be worth at least x for less than that – for .9x, .8x or even lower. (As one of our
directors says, it’s like shooting fish in a barrel, after the barrel has been drained and the fish have quit flopping.)
Nevertheless, we don’t enjoy cashing out partners at a discount, even though our doing so may give the selling
shareholders a slightly higher price than they would receive if our bid was absent. When we are buying,
therefore, we want those exiting partners to be fully informed about the value of the assets they are selling.
At our limit price of 110% of book value, repurchases clearly increase Berkshire’s per-share intrinsic
value. And the more and the cheaper we buy, the greater the gain for continuing shareholders. Therefore, if given
the opportunity, we will likely repurchase stock aggressively at our price limit or lower. You should know,
however, that we have no interest in supporting the stock and that our bids will fade in particularly weak markets.
Nor will we buy shares if our cash-equivalent holdings are below $20 billion. At Berkshire, financial strength
that is unquestionable takes precedence over all else.
************
This discussion of repurchases offers me the chance to address the irrational reaction of many investors
to changes in stock prices. When Berkshire buys stock in a company that is repurchasing shares, we hope for two
events: First, we have the normal hope that earnings of the business will increase at a good clip for a long time to
come; and second, we also hope that the stock underperforms in the market for a long time as well. A corollary to
this second point: “Talking our book” about a stock we own – were that to be effective – would actually be
harmful to Berkshire, not helpful as commentators customarily assume.
6

Let’s use IBM as an example. As all business observers know, CEOs Lou Gerstner and Sam Palmisano
did a superb job in moving IBM from near-bankruptcy twenty years ago to its prominence today. Their
operational accomplishments were truly extraordinary.
But their financial management was equally brilliant, particularly in recent years as the company’s
financial flexibility improved. Indeed, I can think of no major company that has had better financial management, a
skill that has materially increased the gains enjoyed by IBM shareholders. The company has used debt wisely, made
value-adding acquisitions almost exclusively for cash and aggressively repurchased its own stock.
Today, IBM has 1.16 billion shares outstanding, of which we own about 63.9 million or 5.5%.
Naturally, what happens to the company’s earnings over the next five years is of enormous importance to us.
Beyond that, the company will likely spend $50 billion or so in those years to repurchase shares. Our quiz for the
day: What should a long-term shareholder, such as Berkshire, cheer for during that period?
I won’t keep you in suspense. We should wish for IBM’s stock price to languish throughout the five years.