poor underwriting results which were accentuated by data 
processing, administrative and personnel problems.  We have made 
some major mistakes in reorganizing our data processing 
activities, and those mistakes will not be cured immediately or 
without cost.  However, John Ringwalt has thrown himself into the 
task of getting things straightened out and we have confidence 
that he, aided by several strong people who recently have been 
brought aboard, will succeed.

     Our performance in Worker’s Compensation was far, far better 
than we had any right to expect at the beginning of 1979.  We had 
a very favorable climate in California for the achievement of 
good results but, beyond this, Milt Thornton at Cypress Insurance 
Company and Frank DeNardo at National Indemnity’s California 
Worker’s Compensation operation both performed in a simply 
outstanding manner.  We have admitted - and with good reason - 
some mistakes on the acquisition front, but the Cypress purchase 
has turned out to be an absolute gem.  Milt Thornton, like Phil 
Liesche, follows the policy of sticking with business that he 
understands and wants, without giving consideration to the impact 
on volume.  As a result, he has an outstanding book of business 
and an exceptionally well functioning group of employees.  Frank 
DeNardo has straightened out the mess he inherited in Los Angeles 
in a manner far beyond our expectations, producing savings 
measured in seven figures.  He now can begin to build on a sound 
base.

     At yearend we entered the specialized area of surety 
reinsurance under the management of Chet Noble.  At least 
initially, this operation will be relatively small since our 
policy will be to seek client companies who appreciate the need 
for a long term “partnership” relationship with their reinsurers.  
We are pleased by the quality of the insurers we have attracted, 
and hope to add several more of the best primary writers as our 
financial strength and stability become better known in the 
surety field.

     The conventional wisdom is that insurance underwriting 
overall will be poor in 1980, but that rates will start to firm 
in a year or so, leading to a turn in the cycle some time in 
1981.  We disagree with this view.  Present interest rates 
encourage the obtaining of business at underwriting loss levels 
formerly regarded as totally unacceptable.  Managers decry the 
folly of underwriting at a loss to obtain investment income, but 
we believe that many will.  Thus we expect that competition will 
create a new threshold of tolerance for underwriting losses, and 
that combined ratios will average higher in the future than in 
the past.

     To some extent, the day of reckoning has been postponed 
because of marked reduction in the frequency of auto accidents - 
probably brought on in major part by changes in driving habits 
induced by higher gas prices.  In our opinion, if the habits 
hadn’t changed, auto insurance rates would have been very little 
higher and underwriting results would have been much worse.  This 
dosage of serendipity won’t last indefinitely.

     Our forecast is for an average combined ratio for the 
industry in the 105 area over the next five years.  While we have 
a high degree of confidence that certain of our operations will 
do considerably better than average, it will be a challenge to us 
to operate below the industry figure.  You can get a lot of 
surprises in insurance.

     Nevertheless, we believe that insurance can be a very good 
business.  It tends to magnify, to an unusual degree, human 
managerial talent - or the lack of it.  We have a number of 
managers whose talent is both proven and growing. (And, in 
addition, we have a very large indirect interest in two truly 
outstanding management groups through our investments in SAFECO 
and GEICO.) Thus we expect to do well in insurance over a period 
of years.  However, the business has the potential for really 
terrible results in a single specific year.  If accident 
frequency should turn around quickly in the auto field, we, along 
with others, are likely to experience such a year.
Insurance Investments
In recent years we have written at length in this section 
about our insurance equity investments.  In 1979 they continued 
to perform well, largely because the underlying companies in 
which we have invested, in practically all cases, turned in 
outstanding performances.  Retained earnings applicable to our 
insurance equity investments, not reported in our financial 
statements, continue to mount annually and, in aggregate, now 
come to a very substantial number.  We have faith that the 
managements of these companies will utilize those retained 
earnings effectively and will translate a dollar retained by them 
into a dollar or more of subsequent market value for us.  In 
part, our unrealized gains reflect this process.

     Below we show the equity investments which had a yearend 
market value of over $5 million:
No. of Sh.  Company                                     Cost       Market
----------  -------                                  ----------  ----------
                                                         (000s omitted)
289,700   Affiliated Publications, Inc. ........... $  2,821    $  8,800
  112,545   Amerada Hess ............................    2,861       5,487
  246,450   American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. ...    6,082       9,673
5,730,114   GEICO Corp. (Common Stock) ..............   28,288      68,045
  328,700   General Foods, Inc. .....................   11,437      11,053
1,007,500   Handy & Harman ..........................   21,825      38,537
  711,180   Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ....    4,531      23,736
1,211,834   Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp. ........   20,629      23,328
  282,500   Media General, Inc. .....................    4,545       7,345
  391,400   Ogilvy & Mather International ...........    3,709       7,828
  953,750   SAFECO Corporation ......................   23,867      35,527
1,868,000   The Washington Post Company .............   10,628      39,241
  771,900   F. W. Woolworth Company .................   15,515      19,394
                                                     ----------  ----------
            Total ................................... $156,738    $297,994
            All Other Holdings ......................   28,675      38,686
                                                     ----------  ----------
            Total Equities .......................... $185,413    $336,680
                                                     ==========  ==========

     We currently believe that equity markets in 1980 are likely 
to evolve in a manner that will result in an underperformance by 
our portfolio for the first time in recent years.  We very much 
like the companies in which we have major investments, and plan 
no changes to try to attune ourselves to the markets of a 
specific year.

     Since we have covered our philosophy regarding equities 
extensively in recent annual reports, a more extended discussion 
of bond investments may be appropriate for this one, particularly 
in light of what has happened since yearend.  An extraordinary 
amount of money has been lost by the insurance industry in the 
bond area - notwithstanding the accounting convention that allows 
insurance companies to carry their bond investments at amortized 
cost, regardless of impaired market value.  Actually, that very 
accounting convention may have contributed in a major way to the 
losses; had management been forced to recognize market values, 
its attention might have been focused much earlier on the dangers 
of a very long-term bond contract.

     Ironically, many insurance companies have decided that a 
one-year auto policy is inappropriate during a time of inflation, 
and six-month policies have been brought in as replacements.  
“How,” say many of the insurance managers, “can we be expected to 
look forward twelve months and estimate such imponderables as 
hospital costs, auto parts prices, etc.?” But, having decided 
that one year is too long a period for which to set a fixed price 
for insurance in an inflationary world, they then have turned 
around, taken the proceeds from the sale of that six-month 
policy, and sold the money at a fixed price for thirty or forty 
years.

     The very long-term bond contract has been the last major 
fixed price contract of extended duration still regularly 
initiated in an inflation-ridden world.  The buyer of money to be 
used between 1980 and 2020 has been able to obtain a firm price 
now for each year of its use while the buyer of auto insurance, 
medical services, newsprint, office space - or just about any 
other product or service - would be greeted with laughter if he 
were to request a firm price now to apply through 1985.  For in 
virtually all other areas of commerce, parties to long-term 
contracts now either index prices in some manner, or insist on 
the right to review the situation every year or so.

     A cultural lag has prevailed in the bond area.  The buyers 
(borrowers) and middlemen (underwriters) of money hardly could be 
expected to raise the question of whether it all made sense, and 
the sellers (lenders) slept through an economic and contractual 
revolution.

     For the last few years our insurance companies have not been 
a net purchaser of any straight long-term bonds (those without 
conversion rights or other attributes offering profit 
possibilities).  There have been some purchases in the straight 
bond area, of course, but they have been offset by sales or 
maturities.  Even prior to this period, we never would buy thirty 
or forty-year bonds; instead we tried to concentrate in the 
straight bond area on shorter issues with sinking funds and on 
issues that seemed relatively undervalued because of bond market 
inefficiencies.

     However, the mild degree of caution that we exercised was an 
improper response to the world unfolding about us.  You do not 
adequately protect yourself by being half awake while others are 
sleeping.  It was a mistake to buy fifteen-year bonds, and yet we 