On these sites you can learn more about our subsidiaries' products and
-- yes -- even place orders for them.

We are required to file our quarterly
information with the SEC no later than 45 days after the end of each quarter.
One of our goals in posting communications on the Internet is to make this
material information -- in full detail and in a form unfiltered by the
media -- simultaneously available to all interested parties at a time when
markets are closed. Accordingly, we plan to send our 1998 quarterly information
to the SEC on three Fridays, May 15, August 14, and November 13, and on
those nights to post the same information on the Internet. This procedure
will put all of our shareholders, whether they be direct or "street-name,"
on an equal footing. Similarly, we will post our 1998 annual report on
the Internet on Saturday, March 13, 1999, and mail it at about the same
time.

Shareholder-Designated Contributions

About 97.7% of all eligible shares
participated in Berkshire's 1997 shareholder-designated contributions program.
Contributions made were $15.4 million, and 3,830 charities were recipients.
A full description of the program appears on pages 52 - 53.

Cumulatively, over the 17 years
of the program, Berkshire has made contributions of $113.1 million pursuant
to the instructions of our shareholders. The rest of Berkshire's giving
is done by our subsidiaries, which stick to the philanthropic patterns
that prevailed before they were acquired (except that their former owners
themselves take on the responsibility for their personal charities). In
aggregate, our subsidiaries made contributions of $8.1 million in 1997,
including in-kind donations of $4.4 million.

Every year a few shareholders miss
out on our contributions program because they don't have their shares registered
in their own names on the prescribed record date or because they fail to
get the designation form back to us within the 60-day period allowed. Charlie
and I regret this. But if replies are received late, we have to reject
them because we can't make exceptions for some shareholders while refusing
to make them for others.

To participate in future programs,
you must own Class A shares that are registered in the name of the actual
owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not
so registered on August 31, 1998, will be ineligible for the 1998 program.
When you get the contributions form from us, return it promptly so that
it does not get put aside or forgotten.

The Annual Meeting

Woodstock Weekend at Berkshire
will be May 2-4 this year. The finale will be the annual meeting, which
will begin at 9:30 a.m. on Monday, May 4. Last year we met at Aksarben
Coliseum, and both our staff and the crowd were delighted with the venue.
There was only one crisis: The night before the meeting, I lost my voice,
thereby fulfilling Charlie's wildest fantasy. He was crushed when I showed
up the next morning with my speech restored.

Last year about 7,500 attended
the meeting. They represented all 50 states, as well as 16 countries, including
Australia, Brazil, Israel, Saudi Arabia, Singapore and Greece. Taking into
account several overflow rooms, we believe that we can handle more than
11,000 people, and that should put us in good shape this year even though
our shareholder count has risen significantly. Parking is ample at Aksarben;
acoustics are excellent; and seats are comfortable.

The doors will open at 7 a.m. on
Monday and at 8:30 we will again feature the world premiere of a movie
epic produced by Marc Hamburg, our CFO. The meeting will last until 3:30,
with a short break at noon. This interval will permit the exhausted to
leave unnoticed and allow time for the hardcore to lunch at Aksarben's
concession stands. Charlie and I enjoy questions from owners, so bring
up whatever is on your mind.

Berkshire products will again be for sale in the halls outside the meeting room. Last year -- not
that I pay attention to this sort of thing -- we again set sales records,
moving 2,500 pounds of See's candy, 1,350 pairs of Dexter shoes, $75,000
of World Books and related publications, and 888 sets of Quikut knives.
We also took orders for a new line of apparel, featuring our Berkshire
logo, and sold about 1,000 polo, sweat, and T-shirts. At this year's meeting,
we will unveil our 1998 collection.

GEICO will again be on hand with
a booth staffed by star associates from its regional offices. Find out
whether you can save money by shifting your auto insurance to GEICO. About
40% of those who check us out learn that savings are possible. The proportion
is not 100% because insurers differ in their underwriting judgments, with
some favoring drivers who live in certain geographical areas and work at
certain occupations more than we do. We believe, however, that we more
frequently offer the low price than does any other national carrier selling
insurance to all comers. In the GEICO informational material that accompanies
this report, you will see that in 38 states we now offer a special discount
of as much as 8% to our shareholders. We also have applications pending
that would extend this discount to drivers in other states.

An attachment to the proxy material
that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the card
you will need for admission to the meeting. We expect a large crowd, so
get plane, hotel and car reservations promptly. American Express (800-799-6634)
will be happy to help you with arrangements. As usual, we will have buses
at the larger hotels that will take you to and from the meeting and also
deliver you to Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim's and the airport after
its conclusion. You are likely, however, to find a car handy.

NFM's main store, located on a
75-acre site about a mile from Aksarben, is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
on weekdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays, and noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays.
During the period from May 1 to May 5, shareholders who present NFM with
the coupon that will accompany their meeting ticket will be entitled to
a discount that is otherwise restricted to its employees.

Borsheim's normally is closed on
Sunday but will be open for shareholders from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on May
3rd. Last year was our second-best shareholder's day, exceeded only by
1996's. I regard this slippage as an anomaly and hope that you will prove
me right this year. Charlie will be available for autographs. He smiles,
however, only if the paper he signs is a Borsheim's sales ticket. Shareholders
who wish to visit on Saturday (10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.) or on Monday (10 a.m.-8
p.m.) should be sure to identify themselves as Berkshire owners so that
Susan Jacques, Borsheim's CEO, can make you especially welcome. Susan,
I should add, had a fabulous year in 1997. As a manager, she is everything
that an owner hopes for.

On Sunday afternoon we will also
have a special treat for bridge players in the mall outside of Borsheim's.
There, Bob Hamman -- a legend of the game for more than three decades --
will take on all comers. Join in and dazzle Bob with your skill.

My favorite steakhouse, Gorat's,
opens one Sunday a year -- for Berkshire shareholders on the night before
the annual meeting. Last year the restaurant started serving at 4 p.m.
and finished about 1:30 a.m, an endurance trial that was the result of
taking 1,100 reservations vs. a seating capacity of 235. If you make a
reservation and then can't attend, be sure to let Gorat's know promptly,
since it goes to great effort to help us and we want to reciprocate. You
can make reservations beginning on April 1st ( but not before ) by
calling 402-551-3733. Last year I had to leave Gorat's a little early because
of my voice problem, but this year I plan to leisurely savor every bite
of my rare T-bone and double order of hash browns.

After this warmup, Charlie and
I will head for the Dairy Queen on 114th, just south of Dodge. There are
12 great Dairy Queens in metropolitan Omaha, but the 114th Street location
is the best suited to handle the large crowd that we expect. South of the
property, there are hundreds of parking spaces on both sides of the street.
Also, this Dairy Queen will extend its Sunday hours to 11 p.m. in order
to accommodate our shareholders.

The 114th Street operation is now
run by two sisters, Coni Birge and Deb Novotny, whose grandfather put up
the building in 1962 at what was then the outer edge of the city. Their
mother, Jan Noble, took over in 1972, and Coni and Deb continue as third
generation owner-managers. Jan, Coni and Deb will all be on hand Sunday
evening, and I hope that you meet them. Enjoy one of their hamburgers if