# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1981

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
February 26, 1982
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Operating earnings of $39.7 million in 1981 amounted to 
15.2% of beginning equity capital (valuing securities at cost) 
compared to 17.8% in 1980.  Our new plan that allows stockholders 
to designate corporate charitable contributions (detailed later) 
reduced earnings by about $900,000 in 1981.  This program, which 
we expect to continue subject to annual evaluation of our 
corporate tax position, had not been initiated in 1980.
Non-Controlled Ownership Earnings
In the 1980 annual report we discussed extensively the 
concept of non-controlled ownership earnings, i.e., Berkshire’s 
share of the undistributed earnings of companies we don’t control 
or significantly influence but in which we, nevertheless, have 
important investments. (We will be glad to make available to new 
or prospective shareholders copies of that discussion or others 
from earlier reports to which we refer in this report.) No 
portion of those undistributed earnings is included in the 
operating earnings of Berkshire.

     However, our belief is that, in aggregate, those 
undistributed and, therefore, unrecorded earnings will be 
translated into tangible value for Berkshire shareholders just as 
surely as if subsidiaries we control had earned, retained - and 
reported - similar earnings.

     We know that this translation of non-controlled ownership 
earnings into corresponding realized and unrealized capital gains 
for Berkshire will be extremely irregular as to time of 
occurrence.  While market values track business values quite well 
over long periods, in any given year the relationship can gyrate 
capriciously.  Market recognition of retained earnings also will 
be unevenly realized among companies.  It will be disappointingly 
low or negative in cases where earnings are employed non-
productively, and far greater than dollar-for-dollar of retained 
earnings in cases of companies that achieve high returns with 
their augmented capital.  Overall, if a group of non-controlled 
companies is selected with reasonable skill, the group result 
should be quite satisfactory.

     In aggregate, our non-controlled business interests have 
more favorable underlying economic characteristics than our 
controlled businesses.  That’s understandable; the area of choice 
has been far wider.  Small portions of exceptionally good 
businesses are usually available in the securities markets at 
reasonable prices.  But such businesses are available for 
purchase in their entirety only rarely, and then almost always at 
high prices.
General Acquisition Behavior
As our history indicates, we are comfortable both with total 
ownership of businesses and with marketable securities 
representing small portions of businesses.  We continually look 
for ways to employ large sums in each area. (But we try to avoid 
small commitments - “If something’s not worth doing at all, it’s 
not worth doing well”.) Indeed, the liquidity requirements of our 
insurance and trading stamp businesses mandate major investments 
in marketable securities.

     Our acquisition decisions will be aimed at maximizing real 
economic benefits, not at maximizing either managerial domain or 
reported numbers for accounting purposes. (In the long run, 
managements stressing accounting appearance over economic 
substance usually achieve little of either.)

     Regardless of the impact upon immediately reportable 
earnings, we would rather buy 10% of Wonderful Business T at X 
per share than 100% of T at 2X per share.  Most corporate 
managers prefer just the reverse, and have no shortage of stated 
rationales for their behavior.

     However, we suspect three motivations - usually unspoken - 
to be, singly or in combination, the important ones in most high-
premium takeovers:

     (1) Leaders, business or otherwise, seldom are deficient in 
         animal spirits and often relish increased activity and 
         challenge.  At Berkshire, the corporate pulse never 
         beats faster than when an acquisition is in prospect.

     (2) Most organizations, business or otherwise, measure 
         themselves, are measured by others, and compensate their 
         managers far more by the yardstick of size than by any 
         other yardstick. (Ask a
Fortune 500
manager where his 
         corporation stands on that famous list and, invariably, 
         the number responded will be from the list ranked by 
         size of sales; he may well not even know where his 
         corporation places on the list
Fortune
just as 
         faithfully compiles ranking the same 500 corporations by 
         profitability.)

     (3) Many managements apparently were overexposed in 
         impressionable childhood years to the story in which the 
         imprisoned handsome prince is released from a toad’s 
         body by a kiss from a beautiful princess.  Consequently, 
         they are certain their managerial kiss will do wonders 
         for the profitability of Company T(arget).

            Such optimism is essential.  Absent that rosy view, 
         why else should the shareholders of Company A(cquisitor) 
         want to own an interest in T at the 2X takeover cost 
         rather than at the X market price they would pay if they 
         made direct purchases on their own?

            In other words, investors can always buy toads at the 
         going price for toads.  If investors instead bankroll 
         princesses who wish to pay double for the right to kiss 
         the toad, those kisses had better pack some real 
         dynamite.  We’ve observed many kisses but very few 
         miracles.  Nevertheless, many managerial princesses 
         remain serenely confident about the future potency of 
         their kisses - even after their corporate backyards are 
         knee-deep in unresponsive toads.

     In fairness, we should acknowledge that some acquisition 
records have been dazzling.  Two major categories stand out.

     The first involves companies that, through design or 
accident, have purchased only businesses that are particularly 
well adapted to an inflationary environment.  Such favored 
business must have two characteristics: (1) an ability to 
increase prices rather easily (even when product demand is flat 
and capacity is not fully utilized) without fear of significant 
loss of either market share or unit volume, and (2) an ability to 
accommodate large dollar volume increases in business (often 
produced more by inflation than by real growth) with only minor 
additional investment of capital.  Managers of ordinary ability, 
focusing solely on acquisition possibilities meeting these tests, 
have achieved excellent results in recent decades.  However, very 
few enterprises possess both characteristics, and competition to 
buy those that do has now become fierce to the point of being 
self-defeating.

     The second category involves the managerial superstars - men 
who can recognize that rare prince who is disguised as a toad, 
and who have managerial abilities that enable them to peel away 
the disguise.  We salute such managers as Ben Heineman at 
Northwest Industries, Henry Singleton at Teledyne, Erwin Zaban at 
National Service Industries, and especially Tom Murphy at Capital 
Cities Communications (a real managerial “twofer”, whose 
acquisition efforts have been properly focused in Category 1 and 
whose operating talents also make him a leader of Category 2).  
From both direct and vicarious experience, we recognize the 
difficulty and rarity of these executives’ achievements. (So do 
they; these champs have made very few deals in recent years, and 
often have found repurchase of their own shares to be the most 
sensible employment of corporate capital.)

     Your Chairman, unfortunately, does not qualify for Category 
2.  And, despite a reasonably good understanding of the economic 
factors compelling concentration in Category 1, our actual 
acquisition activity in that category has been sporadic and 
inadequate.  Our preaching was better than our performance. (We 
neglected the Noah principle: predicting rain doesn’t count, 
building arks does.)

     We have tried occasionally to buy toads at bargain prices 
with results that have been chronicled in past reports.  Clearly 
our kisses fell flat.  We have done well with a couple of princes 
- but they were princes when purchased.  At least our kisses 
didn’t turn them into toads.  And, finally, we have occasionally 
been quite successful in purchasing fractional interests in 
easily-identifiable princes at toad-like prices.
Berkshire Acquisition Objectives
We will continue to seek the acquisition of businesses in 
their entirety at prices that will make sense, even should the 
future of the acquired enterprise develop much along the lines of 
its past.  We may very well pay a fairly fancy price for a 
Category 1 business if we are reasonably confident of what we are 
getting.  But we will not normally pay a lot in any purchase for 
what we are supposed to bring to the party - for we find that we 
ordinarily don’t bring a lot.

     During 1981 we came quite close to a major purchase 
involving both a business and a manager we liked very much.  
However, the price finally demanded, considering alternative uses 
for the funds involved, would have left our owners worse off than 
before the purchase.  The empire would have been larger, but the 
citizenry would have been poorer.

     Although we had no success in 1981, from time to time in the 
future we will be able to purchase 100% of businesses meeting our 
standards.  Additionally, we expect an occasional offering of a 
major “non-voting partnership” as discussed under the Pinkerton’s 
heading on page 47 of this report.  We welcome suggestions 
regarding such companies where we, as a substantial junior 
partner, can achieve good economic results while furthering the 
long-term objectives of present owners and managers.

     Currently, we find values most easily obtained through the 
open-market purchase of fractional positions in companies with 
excellent business franchises and competent, honest managements.  
We never expect to run these companies, but we do expect to 