1972, Blue Chip Stamps (then an affiliate of Berkshire and later 
merged into it) bought control of See's Candy Shops, a West Coast 
manufacturer and retailer of boxed-chocolates. The nominal price 
that the sellers were asking - calculated on the 100% ownership we 
ultimately attained - was $40 million. But the company had $10 
million of excess cash, and therefore the true offering price was 
$30 million. Charlie and I, not yet fully appreciative of the value 
of an economic franchise, looked at the company's mere $7 million 
of tangible net worth and said $25 million was as high as we would 
go (and we meant it). Fortunately, the sellers accepted our offer.

     The sales of trading stamps by Blue Chip thereafter declined 
from $102.5 million in 1972 to $1.2 million in 1991. But See's 
candy sales in the same period increased from $29 million to $196 
million. Moreover, profits at See's grew even faster than sales, 
from $4.2 million pre-tax in 1972 to $42.4 million last year.

     For an increase in profits to be evaluated properly, it must 
be compared with the incremental capital investment required to 
produce it. On this score, See's has been astounding: The company 
now operates comfortably with only $25 million of net worth, which 
means that our beginning base of $7 million has had to be 
supplemented by only $18 million of reinvested earnings. Meanwhile, 
See's remaining pre-tax profits of $410 million were distributed to 
Blue Chip/Berkshire during the 20 years for these companies to 
deploy (after payment of taxes) in whatever way made most sense.

     In our See's purchase, Charlie and I had one important 
insight: We saw that the business had untapped pricing power. 
Otherwise, we were lucky twice over. First, the transaction was not 
derailed by our dumb insistence on a $25 million price. Second, we 
found Chuck Huggins, then See's executive vice-president, whom we 
instantly put in charge. Both our business and personal experiences 
with Chuck have been outstanding. One example: When the purchase 
was made, we shook hands with Chuck on a compensation arrangement - 
conceived in about five minutes and never reduced to a written 
contract - that remains unchanged to this day.

     In 1991, See's sales volume, measured in dollars, matched that 
of 1990. In pounds, however, volume was down 4%. All of that 
slippage took place in the last two months of the year, a period 
that normally produces more than 80% of annual profits. Despite the 
weakness in sales, profits last year grew 7%, and our pre-tax 
profit margin was a record 21.6%.

     Almost 80% of See's sales come from California and our 
business clearly was hurt by the recession, which hit the state 
with particular force late in the year. Another negative, however, 
was the mid-year initiation in California of a sales tax of 7%-8«% 
(depending on the county involved) on "snack food" that was deemed 
applicable to our candy.

     Shareholders who are students of epistemological shadings will 
enjoy California's classifications of "snack" and "non-snack" 
foods:

     Taxable "Snack" Foods         Non-Taxable "Non-Snack" Foods
     ---------------------         -----------------------------
     Ritz Crackers                 Soda Crackers
     Popped Popcorn                Unpopped Popcorn
     Granola Bars                  Granola Cereal
     Slice of Pie (Wrapped)        Whole Pie
     Milky Way Candy Bar           Milky Way Ice Cream Bar

     What - you are sure to ask - is the tax status of a
melted
Milky Way ice cream bar? In that androgynous form, does it more 
resemble an ice cream bar or a candy bar that has been left in the 
sun?  It's no wonder that Brad Sherman, Chairman of California's 
State Board of Equalization, who opposed the snack food bill but 
must now administer it, has said: "I came to this job as a 
specialist in tax law. Now I find my constituents should have 
elected Julia Child."

     Charlie and I have many reasons to be thankful for our 
association with Chuck and See's. The obvious ones are that we've 
earned exceptional returns and had a good time in the process. 
Equally important, ownership of See's has taught us much about the 
evaluation of franchises. We've made significant money in certain 
common stocks because of the lessons we learned at See's.
H. H. Brown
We made a sizable acquisition in 1991 - the H. H. Brown 
Company - and behind this business is an interesting history. In 
1927 a 29-year-old businessman named Ray Heffernan purchased the 
company, then located in North Brookfield, Massachusetts, for 
$10,000 and began a 62-year career of running it. (He also found 
time for other pursuits: At age 90 he was still joining new golf 
clubs.) By Mr. Heffernan's retirement in early 1990 H. H. Brown had 
three plants in the United States and one in Canada; employed close 
to 2,000 people; and earned about $25 million annually before 
taxes.

     Along the way, Frances Heffernan, one of Ray's daughters, 
married Frank Rooney, who was sternly advised by Mr. Heffernan 
before the wedding that he had better forget any ideas he might 
have about working for his father-in-law. That was one of Mr. 
Heffernan's few mistakes: Frank went on to become CEO of Melville 
Shoe (now Melville Corp.). During his 23 years as boss, from 1964 
through 1986, Melville's earnings averaged more than 20% on equity 
and its stock (adjusted for splits) rose from $16 to $960. And a 
few years after Frank retired, Mr. Heffernan, who had fallen ill, 
asked him to run Brown.

     After Mr. Heffernan died late in 1990, his family decided to 
sell the company - and here we got lucky. I had known Frank for a 
few years but not well enough for him to think of Berkshire as a 
possible buyer. He instead gave the assignment of selling Brown to 
a major investment banker, which failed also to think of us. But 
last spring Frank was playing golf in Florida with John Loomis, a 
long-time friend of mine as well as a Berkshire shareholder, who is 
always on the alert for something that might fit us. Hearing about 
the impending sale of Brown, John told Frank that the company 
should be right up Berkshire's alley, and Frank promptly gave me a 
call. I thought right away that we would make a deal and before 
long it was done.

     Much of my enthusiasm for this purchase came from Frank's 
willingness to continue as CEO. Like most of our managers, he has 
no financial need to work but does so because he loves the game and 
likes to excel. Managers of this stripe cannot be "hired" in the 
normal sense of the word. What we must do is provide a concert hall 
in which business artists of this class will wish to perform.

     Brown (which, by the way, has no connection to Brown Shoe of 
St. Louis) is the leading North American manufacturer of work shoes 
and boots, and it has a history of earning unusually fine margins 
on sales and assets. Shoes are a tough business - of the billion 
pairs purchased in the United States each year, about 85% are 
imported  - and most manufacturers in the industry do poorly. The 
wide range of styles and sizes that producers offer causes 
inventories to be heavy; substantial capital is also tied up in 
receivables. In this kind of environment, only outstanding managers 
like Frank and the group developed by Mr. Heffernan can prosper.

     A distinguishing characteristic of H. H. Brown is one of the 
most unusual compensation systems I've encountered - but one that 
warms my heart: A number of key managers are paid an annual salary 
of $7,800, to which is added a designated percentage of the profits 
of the company after these are reduced by a charge for capital 
employed. These managers therefore truly stand in the shoes of 
owners. In contrast, most managers talk the talk but don't walk the 
walk, choosing instead to employ compensation systems that are long 
on carrots but short on sticks (and that almost invariably treat 
equity capital as if it were cost-free).  The arrangement at Brown, 
in any case, has served both the company and its managers 
exceptionally well, which should be no surprise:  Managers eager to 
bet heavily on their abilities usually have plenty of ability to 
bet on.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     It's discouraging to note that though we have on four 
occasions made major purchases of companies whose sellers were 
represented by prominent investment banks, we were in only one of 
these instances contacted by the investment bank. In the other 
three cases, I myself or a friend initiated the transaction at some 
point after the investment bank had solicited its own list of 
prospects. We would love to see an intermediary earn its fee by 
thinking of us - and therefore repeat here what we're looking for:

     (1) Large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
         earnings),
     (2) Demonstrated consistent earning power (future projections 
         are of little interest to us, nor are "turnaround" 
         situations),
     (3) Businesses earning good returns on equity while employing 