needs of those businesses, we have very substantial sums left over. Most companies limit themselves to
reinvesting funds within the industry in which they have been operating. That often restricts them, however, to a
“universe” for capital allocation that is both tiny and quite inferior to what is available in the wider world.
Competition for the few opportunities that are available tends to become fierce. The seller has the upper hand, as
a girl might if she were the only female at a party attended by many boys. That lopsided situation would be great
for the girl, but terrible for the boys.
At Berkshire we face no institutional restraints when we deploy capital. Charlie and I are limited only
by our ability to understand the likely future of a possible acquisition. If we clear that hurdle – and frequently we
can’t – we are then able to compare any one opportunity against a host of others.

7

When I took control of Berkshire in 1965, I didn’t exploit this advantage. Berkshire was then only in
textiles, where it had in the previous decade lost significant money. The dumbest thing I could have done was to
pursue “opportunities” to improve and expand the existing textile operation – so for years that’s exactly what I
did. And then, in a final burst of brilliance, I went out and bought another textile company. Aaaaaaargh!
Eventually I came to my senses, heading first into insurance and then into other industries.
There is even a supplement to this world-is-our-oyster advantage: In addition to evaluating the
attractions of one business against a host of others, we also measure businesses against opportunities available in
marketable securities, a comparison most managements don’t make. Often, businesses are priced ridiculously
high against what can likely be earned from investments in stocks or bonds. At such moments, we buy securities
and bide our time.
Our flexibility in respect to capital allocation has accounted for much of our progress to date. We have
been able to take money we earn from, say, See’s Candies or Business Wire (two of our best-run businesses, but
also two offering limited reinvestment opportunities) and use it as part of the stake we needed to buy BNSF.
Our final advantage is the hard-to-duplicate culture that permeates Berkshire. And in businesses,
culture counts.
To start with, the directors who represent you think and act like owners. They receive token
compensation: no options, no restricted stock and, for that matter, virtually no cash. We do not provide them
directors and officers liability insurance, a given at almost every other large public company. If they mess up
with your money, they will lose their money as well. Leaving my holdings aside, directors and their families own
Berkshire shares worth more than $3 billion. Our directors, therefore, monitor Berkshire’s actions and results
with keen interest and an owner’s eye. You and I are lucky to have them as stewards.
This same owner-orientation prevails among our managers. In many cases, these are people who have
sought out Berkshire as an acquirer for a business that they and their families have long owned. They came to us
with an owner’s mindset, and we provide an environment that encourages them to retain it. Having managers
who love their businesses is no small advantage.
Cultures self-propagate. Winston Churchill once said, “You shape your houses and then they shape
you.” That wisdom applies to businesses as well. Bureaucratic procedures beget more bureaucracy, and imperial
corporate palaces induce imperious behavior. (As one wag put it, “You know you’re no longer CEO when you
get in the back seat of your car and it doesn’t move.”) At Berkshire’s “World Headquarters” our annual rent is
$270,212. Moreover, the home-office investment in furniture, art, Coke dispenser, lunch room, high-tech
equipment – you name it – totals $301,363. As long as Charlie and I treat your money as if it were our own,
Berkshire’s managers are likely to be careful with it as well.
Our compensation programs, our annual meeting and even our annual reports are all designed with an
eye to reinforcing the Berkshire culture, and making it one that will repel and expel managers of a different bent.
This culture grows stronger every year, and it will remain intact long after Charlie and I have left the scene.
We will need all of the strengths I’ve just described to do reasonably well. Our managers will deliver;
you can count on that. But whether Charlie and I can hold up our end in capital allocation depends in part on the
competitive environment for acquisitions. You will get our best efforts.
GEICO
Now let me tell you a story that will help you understand how the intrinsic value of a business can far
exceed its book value. Relating this tale also gives me a chance to relive some great memories.
Sixty years ago last month, GEICO entered my life, destined to shape it in a huge way. I was then a
20-year-old graduate student at Columbia, having elected to go there because my hero, Ben Graham, taught a
once-a-week class at the school.
8

One day at the library, I checked out Ben’s entry in Who’s Who in America and found he was
chairman of Government Employees Insurance Co. (now called GEICO). I knew nothing of insurance and had
never heard of the company. The librarian, however, steered me to a large compendium of insurers and, after
reading the page on GEICO, I decided to visit the company. The following Saturday, I boarded an early train for
Washington.
Alas, when I arrived at the company’s headquarters, the building was closed. I then rather frantically
started pounding on a door, until finally a janitor appeared. I asked him if there was anyone in the office I could
talk to, and he steered me to the only person around, Lorimer Davidson.
That was my lucky moment. During the next four hours, “Davy” gave me an education about both
insurance and GEICO. It was the beginning of a wonderful friendship. Soon thereafter, I graduated from
Columbia and became a stock salesman in Omaha. GEICO, of course, was my prime recommendation, which got
me off to a great start with dozens of customers. GEICO also jump-started my net worth because, soon after
meeting Davy, I made the stock 75% of my $9,800 investment portfolio. (Even so, I felt over-diversified.)
Subsequently, Davy became CEO of GEICO, taking the company to undreamed-of heights before it got
into trouble in the mid-1970s, a few years after his retirement. When that happened – with the stock falling by
more than 95% – Berkshire bought about one-third of the company in the market, a position that over the years
increased to 50% because of GEICO’s repurchases of its own shares. Berkshire’s cost for this half of the business
was $46 million. (Despite the size of our position, we exercised no control over operations.)
We then purchased the remaining 50% of GEICO at the beginning of 1996, which spurred Davy, at 95,
to make a video tape saying how happy he was that his beloved GEICO would permanently reside with
Berkshire. (He also playfully concluded with, “Next time, Warren, please make an appointment.”)
A lot has happened at GEICO during the last 60 years, but its core goal – saving Americans substantial
money on their purchase of auto insurance – remains unchanged. (Try us at 1-800-847-7536 or
www.GEICO.com.) In other words, get the policyholder’s business by deserving his business. Focusing on this
objective, the company has grown to be America’s third-largest auto insurer, with a market share of 8.8%.
When Tony Nicely, GEICO’s CEO, took over in 1993, that share was 2.0%, a level at which it had
been stuck for more than a decade. GEICO became a different company under Tony, finding a path to consistent
growth while simultaneously maintaining underwriting discipline and keeping its costs low.
Let me quantify Tony’s achievement. When, in 1996, we bought the 50% of GEICO we didn’t already
own, it cost us about $2.3 billion. That price implied a value of $4.6 billion for 100%. GEICO then had tangible
net worth of $1.9 billion.
The excess over tangible net worth of the implied value – $2.7 billion – was what we estimated
GEICO’s “goodwill” to be worth at that time. That goodwill represented the economic value of the policyholders
who were then doing business with GEICO. In 1995, those customers had paid the company $2.8 billion in
premiums. Consequently, we were valuing GEICO’s customers at about 97% (2.7/2.8) of what they were
annually paying the company. By industry standards, that was a very high price. But GEICO was no ordinary
insurer: Because of the company’s low costs, its policyholders were consistently profitable and unusually loyal.
Today, premium volume is $14.3 billion and growing. Yet we carry the goodwill of GEICO on our
books at only $1.4 billion, an amount that will remain unchanged no matter how much the value of GEICO
increases. (Under accounting rules, you write down the carrying value of goodwill if its economic value