Unfortunately, the wish of all insurers to achieve this happy result creates intense competition, so vigorous
indeed that it sometimes causes the P/C industry as a whole to operate at a significant underwriting loss. This loss,
in effect, is what the industry pays to hold its float. Competitive dynamics almost guarantee that the insurance
industry, despite the float income all its companies enjoy, will continue its dismal record of earning subnormal
returns on tangible net worth as compared to other American businesses. The prolonged period of low interest rates
the world is now dealing with also virtually guarantees that earnings on float will steadily decrease for many years
to come, thereby exacerbating the profit problems of insurers. It’s a good bet that industry results over the next ten
years will fall short of those recorded in the past decade, particularly for those companies that specialize in
reinsurance.
As noted early in this report, Berkshire has now operated at an underwriting profit for 13 consecutive
years, our pre-tax gain for the period having totaled $26.2 billion. That’s no accident: Disciplined risk evaluation is
the daily focus of all of our insurance managers, who know that while float is valuable, its benefits can be drowned
by poor underwriting results. All insurers give that message lip service. At Berkshire it is a religion, Old Testament
style.
So how does our float affect intrinsic value? When Berkshire’s book value is calculated, the full amount of
our float is deducted as a liability, just as if we had to pay it out tomorrow and could not replenish it. But to think of
float as strictly a liability is incorrect. It should instead be viewed as a revolving fund. Daily, we pay old claims and
related expenses – a huge $24.5 billion to more than six million claimants in 2015 – and that reduces float. Just as
surely, we each day write new business that will soon generate its own claims, adding to float.

10

If our revolving float is both costless and long-enduring, which I believe it will be, the true value of this
liability is dramatically less than the accounting liability. Owing $1 that in effect will never leave the premises –
because new business is almost certain to deliver a substitute – is worlds different from owing $1 that will go out the
door tomorrow and not be replaced. The two types of liabilities, however, are treated as equals under GAAP.
A partial offset to this overstated liability is a $15.5 billion “goodwill” asset that we incurred in buying our
insurance companies and that increases book value. In very large part, this goodwill represents the price we paid for
the float-generating capabilities of our insurance operations. The cost of the goodwill, however, has no bearing on
its true value. For example, if an insurance company sustains large and prolonged underwriting losses, any goodwill
asset carried on the books should be deemed valueless, whatever its original cost.
Fortunately, that does not describe Berkshire. Charlie and I believe the true economic value of our
insurance goodwill – what we would happily pay for float of similar quality were we to purchase an insurance
operation possessing it – to be far in excess of its historic carrying value. Indeed, almost the entire $15.5 billion we
carry for goodwill in our insurance business was already on our books in 2000. Yet we subsequently tripled our
float. Its value today is one reason – a huge reason – why we believe Berkshire’s intrinsic business value
substantially exceeds its book value.
************
Berkshire’s attractive insurance economics exist only because we have some terrific managers running
disciplined operations that possess hard-to-replicate business models. Let me tell you about the major units.
First by float size is the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, managed by Ajit Jain. Ajit insures risks
that no one else has the desire or the capital to take on. His operation combines capacity, speed, decisiveness and,
most important, brains in a manner unique in the insurance business. Yet he never exposes Berkshire to risks that
are inappropriate in relation to our resources.
Indeed, Berkshire is far more conservative in avoiding risk than most large insurers. For example, if the
insurance industry should experience a $250 billion loss from some mega-catastrophe – a loss about triple anything
it has ever experienced – Berkshire as a whole would likely record a significant profit for the year because of its
many streams of earnings. We would also remain awash in cash and be looking for large opportunities to write
business in an insurance market that might well be in disarray. Meanwhile, other major insurers and reinsurers
would be swimming in red ink, if not facing insolvency.
When Ajit entered Berkshire’s office on a Saturday in 1986, he did not have a day’s experience in the
insurance business. Nevertheless, Mike Goldberg, then our manager of insurance, handed him the keys to our
reinsurance business. With that move, Mike achieved sainthood: Since then, Ajit has created tens of billions of
value for Berkshire shareholders.
************
We have another reinsurance powerhouse in General Re, managed by Tad Montross.
At bottom, a sound insurance operation needs to adhere to four disciplines. It must (1) understand all
exposures that might cause a policy to incur losses; (2) conservatively assess the likelihood of any exposure actually
causing a loss and the probable cost if it does; (3) set a premium that, on average, will deliver a profit after both
prospective loss costs and operating expenses are covered; and (4) be willing to walk away if the appropriate
premium can’t be obtained.

11

Many insurers pass the first three tests and flunk the fourth. They simply can’t turn their back on business
that is being eagerly written by their competitors. That old line, “The other guy is doing it, so we must as well,”
spells trouble in any business, but in none more so than insurance.
Tad has observed all four of the insurance commandments, and it shows in his results. General Re’s huge
float has been considerably better than cost-free under his leadership, and we expect that, on average, to continue.
We are particularly enthusiastic about General Re’s international life reinsurance business, which has grown
consistently and profitably since we acquired the company in 1998.
It can be remembered that soon after we purchased General Re, it was beset by problems that caused
commentators – and me as well, briefly – to believe I had made a huge mistake. That day is long gone. General Re
is now a gem.
************
Finally, there is GEICO, the insurer on which I cut my teeth 65 years ago. GEICO is managed by Tony
Nicely, who joined the company at 18 and completed 54 years of service in 2015. Tony became CEO in 1993, and
since then the company has been flying. There is no better manager than Tony. In the 40 years that I’ve known him,
his every action has made great sense.
When I was first introduced to GEICO in January 1951, I was blown away by the huge cost advantage the
company enjoyed compared to the expenses borne by the giants of the industry. It was clear to me that GEICO
would succeed because it deserved to succeed.
No one likes to buy auto insurance. Almost everyone, though, likes to drive. The insurance consequently
needed is a major expenditure for most families. Savings matter to them – and only a low-cost operation can deliver
these. Indeed, at least 40% of the people reading this letter can save money by insuring with GEICO. So stop
reading – right now! – and go to geico.com or call 800-368-2734.
GEICO’s cost advantage is the factor that has enabled the company to gobble up market share year after
year. (We ended 2015 with 11.4% of the market compared to 2.5% in 1995, when Berkshire acquired control of
GEICO.) The company’s low costs create a moat – an enduring one – that competitors are unable to cross.
All the while, our gecko never tires of telling Americans how GEICO can save them important money. I
love hearing the little guy deliver his message: “15 minutes could save you 15% or more on car insurance.” (Of
course, there’s always a grouch in the crowd. One of my friends says he is glad that only a few animals can talk,
since the ones that do speak seem unable to discuss any subject but insurance.)
************
In addition to our three major insurance operations, we own a group of smaller companies that primarily
write commercial coverages. In aggregate, these companies are a large, growing and valuable operation that
consistently delivers an underwriting profit, usually much better than that reported by their competitors. Indeed,
over the past 13 years, this group has earned $4 billion from underwriting – about 13% of its premium volume –
while increasing its float from $943 million to $9.9 billion.
Less than three years ago, we formed Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (“BHSI”), which we include