---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2002
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2002ar/2002ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 303 - 1585
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

Our gain in net worth during 2002 was $6.1 billion, which increased the per-share book value of
both our Class A and Class B stock by 10.0%. Over the last 38 years (that is, since present management
took over) per-share book value has grown from $19 to $41,727, a rate of 22.2% compounded annually.∗
In all respects 2002 was a banner year. I’ll provide details later, but here’s a summary:
•

Our various non-insurance operations performed exceptionally well, despite a sluggish economy.
A decade ago Berkshire’s annual pre-tax earnings from our non-insurance businesses was $272
million. Now, from our ever-expanding collection of manufacturing, retailing, service and finance
businesses, we earn that sum monthly.

•

Our insurance group increased its float to $41.2 billion, a hefty gain of $5.7 billion. Better yet, the
use of these funds in 2002 cost us only 1%. Getting back to low-cost float feels good, particularly
after our poor results during the three previous years. Berkshire’s reinsurance division and
GEICO shot the lights out in 2002, and underwriting discipline was restored at General Re.

•

Berkshire acquired some important new businesses – with economic characteristics ranging from
good to great, run by managers ranging from great to great. Those attributes are two legs of our
“entrance” strategy, the third being a sensible purchase price. Unlike LBO operators and private
equity firms, we have no “exit” strategy – we buy to keep. That’s one reason why Berkshire is
usually the first – and sometimes the only – choice for sellers and their managers.

•

Our marketable securities outperformed most indices. For Lou Simpson, who manages equities at
GEICO, this was old stuff. But, for me, it was a welcome change from the last few years, during
which my investment record was dismal.

The confluence of these favorable factors in 2002 caused our book-value gain to outstrip the
performance of the S&P 500 by 32.1 percentage points. This result is aberrational: Charlie Munger,
Berkshire’s vice chairman and my partner, and I hope to achieve – at most – an average annual advantage
of a few points. In the future, there will be years in which the S&P soundly trounces us. That will in fact
almost certainly happen during a strong bull market, because the portion of our assets committed to
common stocks has significantly declined. This change, of course, helps our relative performance in down
markets such as we had in 2002.
I have another caveat to mention about last year’s results. If you’ve been a reader of financial
reports in recent years, you’ve seen a flood of “pro-forma” earnings statements – tabulations in which
managers invariably show “earnings” far in excess of those allowed by their auditors. In these
presentations, the CEO tells his owners “don’t count this, don’t count that – just count what makes earnings
fat.” Often, a forget-all-this-bad-stuff message is delivered year after year without management so much as
blushing.

∗

All figures used in this report apply to Berkshire's A shares, the successor to the only stock that
the company had outstanding before 1996. The B shares have an economic interest equal to 1/30th that of
the A.

3

We’ve yet to see a pro-forma presentation disclosing that audited earnings were somewhat high.
So let’s make a little history: Last year, on a pro-forma basis, Berkshire had lower earnings than those we
actually reported.
That is true because two favorable factors aided our reported figures. First, in 2002 there was no
megacatastrophe, which means that Berkshire (and other insurers as well) earned more from insurance than
if losses had been normal. In years when the reverse is true – because of a blockbuster hurricane,
earthquake or man-made disaster – many insurers like to report that they would have earned X “except for”
the unusual event. The implication is that since such megacats are infrequent, they shouldn’t be counted
when “true” earnings are calculated. That is deceptive nonsense. “Except for” losses will forever be part
of the insurance business, and they will forever be paid with shareholders’ money.
Nonetheless, for the purposes of this exercise, we’ll take a page from the industry’s book. For last
year, when we didn’t have any truly major disasters, a downward adjustment is appropriate if you wish to
“normalize” our underwriting result.
Secondly, the bond market in 2002 favored certain strategies we employed in our finance and
financial products business. Gains from those strategies will certainly diminish within a year or two – and
may well disappear.
Soooo . . . “except for” a couple of favorable breaks, our pre-tax earnings last year would have
been about $500 million less than we actually reported. We’re happy, nevertheless, to bank the excess. As
Jack Benny once said upon receiving an award: “I don’t deserve this honor – but, then, I have arthritis, and
I don’t deserve that either.”
************
We continue to be blessed with an extraordinary group of managers, many of whom haven’t the
slightest financial need to work. They stick around, though: In 38 years, we’ve never had a single CEO of
a subsidiary elect to leave Berkshire to work elsewhere. Counting Charlie, we now have six managers over
75, and I hope that in four years that number increases by at least two (Bob Shaw and I are both 72). Our
rationale: “It’s hard to teach a new dog old tricks.”
Berkshire’s operating CEOs are masters of their crafts and run their businesses as if they were
their own. My job is to stay out of their way and allocate whatever excess capital their businesses generate.
It’s easy work.
My managerial model is Eddie Bennett, who was a batboy. In 1919, at age 19, Eddie began his
work with the Chicago White Sox, who that year went to the World Series. The next year, Eddie switched
to the Brooklyn Dodgers, and they, too, won their league title. Our hero, however, smelled trouble.
Changing boroughs, he joined the Yankees in 1921, and they promptly won their first pennant in history.
Now Eddie settled in, shrewdly seeing what was coming. In the next seven years, the Yankees won five
American League titles.
What does this have to do with management? It’s simple – to be a winner, work with winners. In
1927, for example, Eddie received $700 for the 1/8th World Series share voted him by the legendary
Yankee team of Ruth and Gehrig. This sum, which Eddie earned by working only four days (because New
York swept the Series) was roughly equal to the full-year pay then earned by batboys who worked with
ordinary associates.
Eddie understood that how he lugged bats was unimportant; what counted instead was hooking up
with the cream of those on the playing field. I’ve learned from Eddie. At Berkshire, I regularly hand bats
to many of the heaviest hitters in American business.
Acquisitions
We added some sluggers to our lineup last year. Two acquisitions pending at yearend 2001 were
completed: Albecca (which operates under the name Larson-Juhl), the U.S. leader in custom-made picture
frames; and Fruit of the Loom, the producer of about 33.3% of the men’s and boy’s underwear sold in the
U.S. and of other apparel as well.

4

Both companies came with outstanding CEOs: Steve McKenzie at Albecca and John Holland at
Fruit. John, who had retired from Fruit in 1996, rejoined it three years ago and rescued the company from
the disastrous path it had gone down after he’d left. He’s now 70, and I am trying to convince him to make
his next retirement coincident with mine (presently scheduled for five years after my death – a date subject,
however, to extension).
We initiated and completed two other acquisitions last year that were somewhat below our normal
size threshold. In aggregate, however, these businesses earn more than $60 million pre-tax annually. Both
operate in industries characterized by tough economics, but both also have important competitive strengths
that enable them to earn decent returns on capital.
The newcomers are:
(a)

CTB, a worldwide leader in equipment for the poultry, hog, egg production and grain
industries; and

(b)

Garan, a manufacturer of children’s apparel, whose largest and best-known line is
Garanimals®.

These two companies came with the managers responsible for their impressive records: Vic
Mancinelli at CTB and Seymour Lichtenstein at Garan.
The largest acquisition we initiated in 2002 was The Pampered Chef, a company with a fascinating
history dating back to 1980. Doris Christopher was then a 34-year-old suburban Chicago home economics
teacher with a husband, two little girls, and absolutely no business background. Wanting, however, to
supplement her family’s modest income, she turned to thinking about what she knew best – food
preparation. Why not, she wondered, make a business out of marketing kitchenware, focusing on the items
she herself had found most useful?
To get started, Doris borrowed $3,000 against her life insurance policy – all the money ever