On Saturday morning, we will have our sixth International Newspaper Tossing Challenge. Our target
will again be the porch of a Clayton Home, located precisely 35 feet from the throwing line. When I was a
teenager – in my one brief flirtation with honest labor – I delivered about 500,000 papers. So I think I’m pretty
good at this game. Challenge me! Humiliate me! Knock me down a peg! The papers will run 36 to 42 pages, and
you must fold them yourself (no rubber bands allowed). The competition will begin about 7:45, and I’ll take on
ten or so competitors selected a few minutes earlier by my assistant, Deb Bosanek.
Your venue for shopping will be the 194,300-square-foot hall that adjoins the meeting and in which
products from dozens of our subsidiaries will be for sale. Say hello to the many Berkshire managers who will be
captaining their exhibits. And be sure to view the terrific BNSF railroad layout that salutes all of our companies.
Your children (and you!) will be enchanted with it.
Brooks, our running-shoe company, will again have a special commemorative shoe to offer at the
meeting. After you purchase a pair, wear them on Sunday at our fourth annual “Berkshire 5K,” an 8 a.m. race
starting at the CenturyLink. Full details for participating will be included in the Visitor’s Guide that will be sent
to you with your meeting credentials. Entrants in the race will find themselves running alongside many of
Berkshire’s managers, directors and associates. (Charlie and I, however, will sleep in; the fudge and peanut
brittle we eat throughout the Saturday meeting takes its toll.) Participation in the 5K grows every year. Help us
set another record.

26

A GEICO booth in the shopping area will be staffed by a number of the company’s top counselors from
around the country. At last year’s meeting, we set a record for policy sales, up 21% from 2015. I predict we will
be up again this year.
So stop by for a quote. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a shareholder discount (usually
8%). This special offer is permitted by 44 of the 51 jurisdictions in which we operate. (One supplemental point:
The discount is not additive if you qualify for another discount, such as that available to certain groups.) Bring
the details of your existing insurance and check out our price. We can save many of you real money. Spend the
savings on other Berkshire products.
Be sure to visit the Bookworm. This Omaha-based retailer will carry about 35 books and DVDs, among
them a couple of new titles. The best book I read last year was Shoe Dog, by Nike’s Phil Knight. Phil is a very
wise, intelligent and competitive fellow who is also a gifted storyteller. The Bookworm will have piles of Shoe
Dog as well as several investment classics by Jack Bogle.
The Bookworm will once again offer our history of the highlights (and lowlights) of Berkshire’s first 50
years. Non-attendees of the meeting can find the book on eBay. Just type in: Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
Celebrating 50 years of a Profitable Partnership (2nd Edition).
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to both the meeting and other events. Keep in mind that airlines have
sometimes jacked up prices for the Berkshire weekend – though I must admit I have developed some tolerance,
bordering on enthusiasm, for that practice now that Berkshire has made large investments in America’s four
major carriers. Nevertheless, if you are coming from far away, compare the cost of flying to Kansas City vs.
Omaha. The drive between the two cities is about 21/2 hours, and it may be that Kansas City can save you
significant money. The savings for a couple could run to $1,000 or more. Spend that money with us.
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we will
again be having “Berkshire Weekend” discount pricing. To obtain the Berkshire discount at NFM, you must
make your purchases between Tuesday, May 2nd and Monday, May 8th inclusive, and must also present your
meeting credential. The period’s special pricing will even apply to the products of several prestigious
manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but which, in the spirit of our shareholder
weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their cooperation. During “Berkshire Weekend,” NFM
will be open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. on Saturday and 10 a.m. to 8
p.m. on Sunday. From 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturday, NFM is hosting a picnic to which you are all invited.
This year we have good news for shareholders in the Kansas City and Dallas metro markets who can’t
attend the meeting or perhaps prefer the webcast. From May 2nd through May 8th, shareholders who present
meeting credentials or other evidence of their Berkshire ownership (such as brokerage statements) to their local
NFM store will receive the same discounts enjoyed by those visiting the Omaha store.
At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholder-only events. The first will be a cocktail reception
from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Friday, May 5th. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, May 7th, from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. On Saturday, we will remain open until 6 p.m. Remember, the more you buy, the more you save
(or so my daughter tells me when we visit the store).

27

We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, therefore,
shareholder prices will be available from Monday, May 1st through Saturday, May 13th. During that period,
please identify yourself as a shareholder either by presenting your meeting credential or a brokerage statement
showing you own our stock.
On Sunday, in the mall outside of Borsheims, Norman Beck, a remarkable magician and motivational
speaker from Dallas, will bewilder onlookers. On the upper level, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon
Osberg, two of the world’s top bridge experts, available to play with our shareholders on Sunday afternoon. If
they suggest wagering on the game, change the subject. I will join them at some point and hope Ajit, Charlie and
Bill Gates will do so also.
My friend, Ariel Hsing, will be in the mall as well on Sunday, taking on challengers at table tennis. I
met Ariel when she was nine, and even then I was unable to score a point against her. Ariel represented the
United States in the 2012 Olympics. Now, she’s a senior at Princeton (after interning last summer at JPMorgan
Chase). If you don’t mind embarrassing yourself, test your skills against her, beginning at 1 p.m. Bill Gates did
pretty well playing Ariel last year, so he may be ready to again challenge her. (My advice: Bet on Ariel.)
Gorat’s will be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 7th, serving from 1 p.m.
until 10 p.m. To make a reservation at Gorat’s, call 402-551-3733 on April 3rd (but not before). Show you are a
sophisticated diner by ordering the T-bone with hash browns.
We will have the same three financial journalists lead the question-and-answer period at the meeting,
asking Charlie and me questions that shareholders have submitted to them by e-mail. The journalists and their
e-mail addresses are: Carol Loomis, the preeminent business journalist of her time, who may be e-mailed at
loomisbrk@gmail.com; Becky Quick, of CNBC, at BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com; and Andrew Ross Sorkin, of
the New York Times, at arsorkin@nytimes.com.
From the questions submitted, each journalist will choose the six he or she decides are the most
interesting and important to shareholders. The journalists have told me your question has the best chance of being
selected if you keep it concise, avoid sending it in at the last moment, make it Berkshire-related and include no
more than two questions in any e-mail you send them. (In your e-mail, let the journalist know if you would like
your name mentioned if your question is asked.)
An accompanying set of questions will be asked by three analysts who follow Berkshire. This year the
insurance specialist will be Jay Gelb of Barclays. Questions that deal with our non-insurance operations will
come from Jonathan Brandt of Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb and Gregg Warren of Morningstar. Since what we
will be conducting is a shareholders’ meeting, our hope is that the analysts and journalists will ask questions that
add to our owners’ understanding and knowledge of their investment.
Neither Charlie nor I will get so much as a clue about the questions headed our way. Some will be
tough, for sure, and that’s the way we like it. Multi-part questions aren’t allowed; we want to give as many
questioners as possible a shot at us. Our goal is for you to leave the meeting knowing more about Berkshire than