to us that either corporations are making very significant 
mistakes in purchasing entire businesses at prices prevailing in 
negotiated transactions and takeover bids, or that we eventually 
are going to make considerable sums of money buying small 
portions of such businesses at the greatly discounted valuations 
prevailing in the stock market. (A second footnote: in 1978 
pension managers, a group that logically should maintain the 
longest of investment perspectives, put only 9% of net available 
funds into equities - breaking the record low figure set in 1974 
and tied in 1977.)

     We are not concerned with whether the market quickly 
revalues upward securities that we believe are selling at bargain 
prices.  In fact, we prefer just the opposite since, in most 
years, we expect to have funds available to be a net buyer of 
securities.  And consistent attractive purchasing is likely to 
prove to be of more eventual benefit to us than any selling 
opportunities provided by a short-term run up in stock prices to 
levels at which we are unwilling to continue buying.

     Our policy is to concentrate holdings.  We try to avoid 
buying a little of this or that when we are only lukewarm about 
the business or its price.  When we are convinced as to 
attractiveness, we believe in buying worthwhile amounts.

Equity holdings of our insurance companies with a market value of 
over $8 million on December 31, 1978 were as follows:
No. of
Shares      Company                                     Cost       Market
----------  -------                                  ----------  ----------
                                                         (000s omitted)
246,450   American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. ... $  6,082    $  8,626
1,294,308   Government Employees Insurance Company
               Common Stock .........................    4,116       9,060
1,986,953   Government Employees Insurance Company 
               Convertible Preferred ................   19,417      28,314
  592,650   Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ....    4,531      19,039
1,066,934   Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corporation    18,085      18,671
  453,800   Knight-Ridder Newspapers, Inc. ..........    7,534      10,267
  953,750   SAFECO Corporation ......................   23,867      26,467
  934,300   The Washington Post Company .............   10,628      43,445
                                                     ----------  ----------
            Total ................................... $ 94,260    $163,889
            All Other Holdings ......................   39,506      57,040
                                                     ----------  ----------
            Total Equities .......................... $133,766    $220,929
                                                     ==========  ==========

     In some cases our indirect interest in earning power is 
becoming quite substantial.  For example, note our holdings of 
953,750 shares of SAFECO Corp. SAFECO probably is the best run 
large property and casualty insurance company in the United 
States.  Their underwriting abilities are simply superb, their 
loss reserving is conservative, and their investment policies 
make great sense.

     SAFECO is a much better insurance operation than our own 
(although we believe certain segments of ours are much better 
than average), is better than one we could develop and, 
similarly, is far better than any in which we might negotiate 
purchase of a controlling interest.  Yet our purchase of SAFECO 
was made at substantially under book value.  We paid less than 
100 cents on the dollar for the best company in the business, 
when far more than 100 cents on the dollar is being paid for 
mediocre companies in corporate transactions.  And there is no 
way to start a new operation - with necessarily uncertain 
prospects - at less than 100 cents on the dollar.

     Of course, with a minor interest we do not have the right to 
direct or even influence management policies of SAFECO.  But why 
should we wish to do this?  The record would indicate that they 
do a better job of managing their operations than we could do 
ourselves.  While there may be less excitement and prestige in 
sitting back and letting others do the work, we think that is all 
one loses by accepting a passive participation in excellent 
management.  Because, quite clearly, if one controlled a company 
run as well as SAFECO, the proper policy also would be to sit 
back and let management do its job.

     Earnings attributable to the shares of SAFECO owned by 
Berkshire at yearend amounted to $6.1 million during 1978, but 
only the dividends received (about 18% of earnings) are reflected 
in our operating earnings.  We believe the balance, although not 
reportable, to be just as real in terms of eventual benefit to us 
as the amount distributed.  In fact, SAFECO’s retained earnings 
(or those of other well-run companies if they have opportunities 
to employ additional capital advantageously) may well eventually 
have a value to shareholders greater than 100 cents on the 
dollar.

     We are not at all unhappy when our wholly-owned businesses 
retain all of their earnings if they can utilize internally those 
funds at attractive rates.  Why should we feel differently about 
retention of earnings by companies in which we hold small equity 
interests, but where the record indicates even better prospects 
for profitable employment of capital? (This proposition cuts the 
other way, of course, in industries with low capital 
requirements, or if management has a record of plowing capital 
into projects of low profitability; then earnings should be paid 
out or used to repurchase shares - often by far the most 
attractive option for capital utilization.)

     The aggregate level of such retained earnings attributable 
to our equity interests in fine companies is becoming quite 
substantial.  It does not enter into our reported operating 
earnings, but we feel it well may have equal long-term 
significance to our shareholders.  Our hope is that conditions 
continue to prevail in securities markets which allow our 
insurance companies to buy large amounts of underlying earning 
power for relatively modest outlays.  At some point market 
conditions undoubtedly will again preclude such bargain buying 
but, in the meantime, we will try to make the most of 
opportunities.
Banking
Under Gene Abegg and Pete Jeffrey, the Illinois National 
Bank and Trust Company in Rockford continues to establish new 
records.  Last year’s earnings amounted to approximately 2.1% of 
average assets, about three times the level averaged by major 
banks.  In our opinion, this extraordinary level of earnings is 
being achieved while maintaining significantly less asset risk 
than prevails at most of the larger banks.

     We purchased the Illinois National Bank in March 1969.  It 
was a first-class operation then, just as it had been ever since 
Gene Abegg opened the doors in 1931.  Since 1968, consumer time 
deposits have quadrupled, net income has tripled and trust 
department income has more than doubled, while costs have been 
closely controlled.

     Our experience has been that the manager of an already high-
cost operation frequently is uncommonly resourceful in finding 
new ways to add to overhead, while the manager of a tightly-run 
operation usually continues to find additional methods to curtail 
costs, even when his costs are already well below those of his 
competitors.  No one has demonstrated this latter ability better 
than Gene Abegg.

     We are required to divest our bank by December 31, 1980.  
The most likely approach is to spin it off to Berkshire 
shareholders some time in the second half of 1980.
Retailing
Upon merging with Diversified, we acquired 100% ownership of 
Associated Retail Stores, Inc., a chain of about 75 popular 
priced women’s apparel stores.  Associated was launched in 
Chicago on March 7, 1931 with one store, $3200, and two 
extraordinary partners, Ben Rosner and Leo Simon.  After Mr. 
Simon’s death, the business was offered to Diversified for cash 
in 1967.  Ben was to continue running the business - and run it, 
he has.

     Associated’s business has not grown, and it consistently has 
faced adverse demographic and retailing trends.  But Ben’s 
combination of merchandising, real estate and cost-containment 
skills has produced an outstanding record of profitability, with 
returns on capital necessarily employed in the business often in 
the 20% after-tax area.

     Ben is now 75 and, like Gene Abegg, 81, at Illinois National 
and Louie Vincenti, 73, at Wesco, continues daily to bring an 
almost passionately proprietary attitude to the business.  This 
group of top managers must appear to an outsider to be an 
overreaction on our part to an OEO bulletin on age 
discrimination.  While unorthodox, these relationships have been 
exceptionally rewarding, both financially and personally.  It is 
a real pleasure to work with managers who enjoy coming to work 
each morning and, once there, instinctively and unerringly think 
like owners.  We are associated with some of the very best.


                                    Warren E. Buffett, Chairman

March 26, 1979
