CEO who craves an acquisition bring in an informed and articulate critic to argue against it. And yes, include me
among the guilty.

Berkshire, Blue Chip Stamps, Cap Cities-ABC, Coca-Cola, Data Documents, Dempster, General Growth, Gillette,
Kraft Heinz, Maracaibo Oil, Munsingwear, Omaha National Bank, Pinkerton’s, Portland Gas Light, Salomon,
Sanborn Map, Tribune Oil, U.S. Air, Vornado, Washington Post, Wesco Financial
12

Overall, the deck is stacked in favor of the deal that’s coveted by the CEO and his/her obliging staff. It would
be an interesting exercise for a company to hire two “expert” acquisition advisors, one pro and one con, to deliver his
or her views on a proposed deal to the board – with the winning advisor to receive, say, ten times a token sum paid to
the loser. Don’t hold your breath awaiting this reform: The current system, whatever its shortcomings for shareholders,
works magnificently for CEOs and the many advisors and other professionals who feast on deals. A venerable caution
will forever be true when advice from Wall Street is contemplated: Don’t ask the barber whether you need a haircut.
Over the years, board “independence” has become a new area of emphasis. One key point relating to this
topic, though, is almost invariably overlooked: Director compensation has now soared to a level that inevitably makes
pay a subconscious factor affecting the behavior of many non-wealthy members. Think, for a moment, of the director
earning $250,000-300,000 for board meetings consuming a pleasant couple of days six or so times a year. Frequently,
the possession of one such directorship bestows on its holder three to four times the annual median income of U.S.
households. (I missed much of this gravy train: As a director of Portland Gas Light in the early 1960s, I received $100
annually for my service. To earn this princely sum, I commuted to Maine four times a year.)
And job security now? It’s fabulous. Board members may get politely ignored, but they seldom get fired.
Instead, generous age limits – usually 70 or higher – act as the standard method for the genteel ejection of directors.
Is it any wonder that a non-wealthy director (“NWD”) now hopes – or even yearns – to be asked to join a
second board, thereby vaulting into the $500,000-600,000 class? To achieve this goal, the NWD will need help. The
CEO of a company searching for board members will almost certainly check with the NWD’s current CEO as to
whether NWD is a “good” director. “Good,” of course, is a code word. If the NWD has seriously challenged his/her
present CEO’s compensation or acquisition dreams, his or her candidacy will silently die. When seeking directors,
CEOs don’t look for pit bulls. It’s the cocker spaniel that gets taken home.
Despite the illogic of it all, the director for whom fees are important – indeed, craved – is almost universally
classified as “independent” while many directors possessing fortunes very substantially linked to the welfare of the
corporation are deemed lacking in independence. Not long ago, I looked at the proxy material of a large American
company and found that eight directors had never purchased a share of the company’s stock using their own money.
(They, of course, had received grants of stock as a supplement to their generous cash compensation.) This particular
company had long been a laggard, but the directors were doing wonderfully.
Paid-with-my-own-money ownership, of course, does not create wisdom or ensure business smarts.
Nevertheless, I feel better when directors of our portfolio companies have had the experience of purchasing shares
with their savings, rather than simply having been the recipients of grants.
************
Here, a pause is due: I’d like you to know that almost all of the directors I have met over the years have been
decent, likable and intelligent. They dressed well, made good neighbors and were fine citizens. I’ve enjoyed their
company. Among the group are some men and women that I would not have met except for our mutual board service
and who have become close friends.
Nevertheless, many of these good souls are people whom I would never have chosen to handle money or
business matters. It simply was not their game.
They, in turn, would never have asked me for help in removing a tooth, decorating their home or improving
their golf swing. Moreover, if I were ever scheduled to appear on Dancing With the Stars, I would immediately seek
refuge in the Witness Protection Program. We are all duds at one thing or another. For most of us, the list is long. The
important point to recognize is that if you are Bobby Fischer, you must play only chess for money.
At Berkshire, we will continue to look for business-savvy directors who are owner-oriented and arrive with
a strong specific interest in our company. Thought and principles, not robot-like “process,” will guide their actions.
In representing your interests, they will, of course, seek managers whose goals include delighting their customers,
cherishing their associates and acting as good citizens of both their communities and our country.

13

Those objectives are not new. They were the goals of able CEOs sixty years ago and remain so. Who would
have it otherwise?
Short Subjects
In past reports, we’ve discussed both the sense and nonsense of stock repurchases. Our thinking, boiled down:
Berkshire will buy back its stock only if a) Charlie and I believe that it is selling for less than it is worth and b) the
company, upon completing the repurchase, is left with ample cash.
Calculations of intrinsic value are far from precise. Consequently, neither of us feels any urgency to buy an
estimated $1 of value for a very real 95 cents. In 2019, the Berkshire price/value equation was modestly favorable at
times, and we spent $5 billion in repurchasing about 1% of the company.
Over time, we want Berkshire’s share count to go down. If the price-to-value discount (as we estimate it)
widens, we will likely become more aggressive in purchasing shares. We will not, however, prop the stock at any
level.
Shareholders having at least $20 million in value of A or B shares and an inclination to sell shares to Berkshire
may wish to have their broker contact Berkshire’s Mark Millard at 402-346-1400. We request that you phone Mark
between 8:00-8:30 a.m. or 3:00-3:30 p.m. Central Time, calling only if you are ready to sell.
************
In 2019, Berkshire sent $3.6 billion to the U.S. Treasury to pay its current income tax. The U.S. government
collected $243 billion from corporate income tax payments during the same period. From these statistics, you can take
pride that your company delivered 1 1⁄ 2% of the federal income taxes paid by all of corporate America.
Fifty-five years ago, when Berkshire entered its current incarnation, the company paid nothing in federal
income tax. (For good reason, too: Over the previous decade, the struggling business had recorded a net loss.) Since
then, as Berkshire retained nearly all of its earnings, the beneficiaries of that policy became not only the company’s
shareholders but also the federal government. In most future years, we both hope and expect to send far larger sums
to the Treasury.
************
On pages A-2 – A-3, you will find details about our annual meeting, which will be held on May 2, 2020.
Yahoo, as usual, will be streaming the event worldwide. There will be one important change, however, in our format:
I’ve had suggestions from shareholders, media and board members that Ajit Jain and Greg Abel – our two key
operating managers – be given more exposure at the meeting. That change makes great sense. They are outstanding
individuals, both as managers and as human beings, and you should hear more from them.
Shareholders who this year send a question to be asked by our three long-serving journalists may specify that
it be posed to Ajit or Greg. They, like Charlie and me, will not have even a hint of what the questions will be.
The journalists will alternate questions with those from the audience, who also can direct questions to any of
the four of us. So polish up your zingers.
************
On May 2nd, come to Omaha. Meet your fellow capitalists. Buy some Berkshire products. Have fun. Charlie
and I – along with the entire Berkshire gang – are looking forward to seeing you.
February 22, 2020
