In our other major derivatives commitment, we sold long-term puts on four leading stock indices in the
U.S., U.K., Europe and Japan. These contracts were initiated between 2004 and 2008 and even under the worst of
circumstances have only minor collateral requirements. In 2010 we unwound about 10% of our exposure at a profit
of $222 million. The remaining contracts expire between 2018 and 2026. Only the index value at expiration date
counts; our counterparties have no right to early termination.
Berkshire received premiums of $4.2 billion when we wrote the contracts that remain outstanding. If all of
these contracts had come due at yearend 2011, we would have had to pay $6.2 billion; the corresponding figure at
yearend 2012 was $3.9 billion. With this large drop in immediate settlement liability, we reduced our GAAP
liability at yearend 2012 to $7.5 billion from $8.5 billion at the end of 2011. Though it’s no sure thing, Charlie and I
believe it likely that the final liability will be considerably less than the amount we currently carry on our books. In
the meantime, we can invest the $4.2 billion of float derived from these contracts as we see fit.
We Buy Some Newspapers . . . Newspapers?
During the past fifteen months, we acquired 28 daily newspapers at a cost of $344 million. This may
puzzle you for two reasons. First, I have long told you in these letters and at our annual meetings that the
circulation, advertising and profits of the newspaper industry overall are certain to decline. That prediction still
holds. Second, the properties we purchased fell far short of meeting our oft-stated size requirements for
acquisitions.
We can address the second point easily. Charlie and I love newspapers and, if their economics make sense,
will buy them even when they fall far short of the size threshold we would require for the purchase of, say, a widget
company. Addressing the first point requires me to provide a more elaborate explanation, including some history.
News, to put it simply, is what people don’t know that they want to know. And people will seek their news
– what’s important to them – from whatever sources provide the best combination of immediacy, ease of access,
reliability, comprehensiveness and low cost. The relative importance of these factors varies with the nature of the
news and the person wanting it.
Before television and the Internet, newspapers were the primary source for an incredible variety of news, a
fact that made them indispensable to a very high percentage of the population. Whether your interests were
international, national, local, sports or financial quotations, your newspaper usually was first to tell you the latest
information. Indeed, your paper contained so much you wanted to learn that you received your money’s worth, even
if only a small number of its pages spoke to your specific interests. Better yet, advertisers typically paid almost all
of the product’s cost, and readers rode their coattails.
Additionally, the ads themselves delivered information of vital interest to hordes of readers, in effect
providing even more “news.” Editors would cringe at the thought, but for many readers learning what jobs or
apartments were available, what supermarkets were carrying which weekend specials, or what movies were showing
where and when was far more important than the views expressed on the editorial page.

16

In turn, the local paper was indispensable to advertisers. If Sears or Safeway built stores in Omaha, they
required a “megaphone” to tell the city’s residents why their stores should be visited today. Indeed, big department
stores and grocers vied to outshout their competition with multi-page spreads, knowing that the goods they
advertised would fly off the shelves. With no other megaphone remotely comparable to that of the newspaper, ads
sold themselves.
As long as a newspaper was the only one in its community, its profits were certain to be extraordinary;
whether it was managed well or poorly made little difference. (As one Southern publisher famously confessed, “I
owe my exalted position in life to two great American institutions – nepotism and monopoly.”)
Over the years, almost all cities became one-newspaper towns (or harbored two competing papers that
joined forces to operate as a single economic unit). This contraction was inevitable because most people wished to
read and pay for only one paper. When competition existed, the paper that gained a significant lead in circulation
almost automatically received the most ads. That left ads drawing readers and readers drawing ads. This symbiotic
process spelled doom for the weaker paper and became known as “survival of the fattest.”
Now the world has changed. Stock market quotes and the details of national sports events are old news
long before the presses begin to roll. The Internet offers extensive information about both available jobs and homes.
Television bombards viewers with political, national and international news. In one area of interest after another,
newspapers have therefore lost their “primacy.” And, as their audiences have fallen, so has advertising. (Revenues
from “help wanted” classified ads – long a huge source of income for newspapers – have plunged more than 90% in
the past 12 years.)
Newspapers continue to reign supreme, however, in the delivery of local news. If you want to know what’s
going on in your town – whether the news is about the mayor or taxes or high school football – there is no substitute
for a local newspaper that is doing its job. A reader’s eyes may glaze over after they take in a couple of paragraphs
about Canadian tariffs or political developments in Pakistan; a story about the reader himself or his neighbors will
be read to the end. Wherever there is a pervasive sense of community, a paper that serves the special informational
needs of that community will remain indispensable to a significant portion of its residents.
Even a valuable product, however, can self-destruct from a faulty business strategy. And that process has
been underway during the past decade at almost all papers of size. Publishers – including Berkshire in Buffalo –
have offered their paper free on the Internet while charging meaningful sums for the physical specimen. How could
this lead to anything other than a sharp and steady drop in sales of the printed product? Falling circulation,
moreover, makes a paper less essential to advertisers. Under these conditions, the “virtuous circle” of the past
reverses.
The Wall Street Journal went to a pay model early. But the main exemplar for local newspapers is the
Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, published by Walter Hussman, Jr. Walter also adopted a pay format early, and over
the past decade his paper has retained its circulation far better than any other large paper in the country. Despite
Walter’s powerful example, it’s only been in the last year or so that other papers, including Berkshire’s, have
explored pay arrangements. Whatever works best – and the answer is not yet clear – will be copied widely.
************
Charlie and I believe that papers delivering comprehensive and reliable information to tightly-bound
communities and having a sensible Internet strategy will remain viable for a long time. We do not believe that
success will come from cutting either the news content or frequency of publication. Indeed, skimpy news coverage
will almost certainly lead to skimpy readership. And the less-than-daily publication that is now being tried in some
large towns or cities – while it may improve profits in the short term – seems certain to diminish the papers’
relevance over time. Our goal is to keep our papers loaded with content of interest to our readers and to be paid
appropriately by those who find us useful, whether the product they view is in their hands or on the Internet.

17

Our confidence is buttressed by the availability of Terry Kroeger’s outstanding management group at the
Omaha World-Herald, a team that has the ability to oversee a large group of papers. The individual papers,
however, will be independent in their news coverage and editorial opinions. (I voted for Obama; of our 12 dailies
that endorsed a presidential candidate, 10 opted for Romney.)
Our newspapers are certainly not insulated from the forces that have been driving revenues downward.
Still, the six small dailies we owned throughout 2012 had unchanged revenues for the year, a result far superior to
that experienced by big-city dailies. Moreover, the two large papers we operated throughout the year – The Buffalo
News and the Omaha World-Herald – held their revenue loss to 3%, which was also an above-average outcome.
Among newspapers in America’s 50 largest metropolitan areas, our Buffalo and Omaha papers rank near the top in
circulation penetration of their home territories.
This popularity is no accident: Credit the editors of those papers – Margaret Sullivan at the News and Mike
Reilly at the World-Herald — for delivering information that has made their publications indispensable to
community-interested readers. (Margaret, I regret to say, recently left us to join The New York Times, whose job
offers are tough to turn down. That paper made a great hire, and we wish her the best.)