
9

For a long time, the pessimism appeared to be correct, with production falling to five
million BOEPD by 2007. Meanwhile, the U.S. government created a Strategic Petroleum Reserve
(“SPR”) in 1975 to alleviate – though not come close to eliminating – this erosion of American
self-sufficiency.
And then – Hallelujah! – shale economics became feasible in 2011, and our energy
dependency ended. Now, U.S. production is more than 13 million BOEPD, and OPEC no longer
has the upper hand. Occidental itself has annual U.S. oil production that each year comes close to
matching the entire inventory of the SPR. Our country would be very – very – nervous today if
domestic production had remained at five million BOEPD, and it found itself hugely dependent
on non-U.S. sources. At that level, the SPR would have been emptied within months if foreign oil
became unavailable.
Under Vicki Hollub’s leadership, Occidental is doing the right things for both its country
and its owners. No one knows what oil prices will do over the next month, year, or decade. But
Vicki does know how to separate oil from rock, and that’s an uncommon talent, valuable to her
shareholders and to her country.
************
Additionally, Berkshire continues to hold its passive and long-term interest in five very
large Japanese companies, each of which operates in a highly-diversified manner somewhat similar
to the way Berkshire itself is run. We increased our holdings in all five last year after Greg Abel
and I made a trip to Tokyo to talk with their managements.
Berkshire now owns about 9% of each of the five. (A minor point: Japanese companies
calculate outstanding shares in a manner different from the practice in the U.S.) Berkshire has also
pledged to each company that it will not purchase shares that will take our holdings beyond 9.9%.
Our cost for the five totals ¥1.6 trillion, and the yearend market value of the five was ¥2.9 trillion.
However, the yen has weakened in recent years and our yearend unrealized gain in dollars was
61% or $8 billion.
Neither Greg nor I believe we can forecast market prices of major currencies. We also don’t
believe we can hire anyone with this ability. Therefore, Berkshire has financed most of its Japanese
position with the proceeds from ¥1.3 trillion of bonds. This debt has been very well-received in
Japan, and I believe Berkshire has more yen-denominated debt outstanding than any other
American company. The weakened yen has produced a yearend gain for Berkshire of $1.9 billion,
a sum that, pursuant to GAAP rules, has periodically been recognized in income over the
2020-23 period.
In certain important ways, all five companies – Itochu, Marubeni, Mitsubishi, Mitsui and
Sumitomo – follow shareholder-friendly policies that are much superior to those customarily
practiced in the U.S. Since we began our Japanese purchases, each of the five has reduced the
number of its outstanding shares at attractive prices.

10

Meanwhile, the managements of all five companies have been far less aggressive about
their own compensation than is typical in the United States. Note as well that each of the five is
applying only about 1⁄ 3 of its earnings to dividends. The large sums the five retain are used both to
build their many businesses and, to a lesser degree, to repurchase shares. Like Berkshire, the five
companies are reluctant to issue shares.
An additional benefit for Berkshire is the possibility that our investment may lead to
opportunities for us to partner around the world with five large, well-managed and well-respected
companies. Their interests are far more broad than ours. And, on their side, the Japanese CEOs
have the comfort of knowing that Berkshire will always possess huge liquid resources that can be
instantly available for such partnerships, whatever their size may be.
Our Japanese purchases began on July 4, 2019. Given Berkshire’s present size, building
positions through open-market purchases takes a lot of patience and an extended period of
“friendly” prices. The process is like turning a battleship. That is an important disadvantage which
we did not face in our early days at Berkshire.
The Scorecard in 2023
Every quarter we issue a press release that reports our summarized operating earnings (or
loss) in a manner similar to what is shown below. Here is the full-year compilation:
(in $ millions)
2023
2022
Insurance-underwriting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance-investment income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Railroad . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities and energy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other businesses and miscellaneous items . . . . . . .
Operating earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 5,428
9,567
5,087
2,331
14,937
$37,350

$

(30)
6,484
5,946
3,904
14,549
$30,853

At Berkshire’s annual gathering on May 6, 2023, I presented the first quarter’s results
which had been released early that morning. I followed with a short summary of the outlook for
the full year: (1) most of our non-insurance businesses faced lower earnings in 2023; (2) that
decline would be cushioned by decent results at our two largest non-insurance businesses, BNSF
and Berkshire Hathaway Energy (“BHE”) which, combined, had accounted for more than 30% of
operating earnings in 2022; (3) our investment income was certain to materially grow because the
huge U.S. Treasury bill position held by Berkshire had finally begun to pay us far more than the
pittance we had been receiving and (4) insurance would likely do well, both because its
underwriting earnings are not correlated to earnings elsewhere in the economy and, beyond that,
property-casualty insurance prices had strengthened.

11

Insurance came through as expected. I erred, however, in my expectations for both BNSF
and BHE. Let’s take a look at each.
************
Rail is essential to America’s economic future. It is clearly the most efficient
way – measured by cost, fuel usage and carbon intensity – of moving heavy materials to distant
destinations. Trucking wins for short hauls, but many goods that Americans need must travel to
customers many hundreds or even several thousands of miles away. The country can’t run without
rail, and the industry’s capital needs will always be huge. Indeed, compared to most American
businesses, railroads eat capital.
BNSF is the largest of six major rail systems that blanket North America. Our railroad
carries its 23,759 miles of main track, 99 tunnels, 13,495 bridges, 7,521 locomotives and assorted
other fixed assets at $70 billion on its balance sheet. But my guess is that it would cost at least
$500 billion to replicate those assets and decades to complete the job.
BNSF must annually spend more than its depreciation charge to simply maintain its present
level of business. This reality is bad for owners, whatever the industry in which they have invested,
but it is particularly disadvantageous in capital-intensive industries.
At BNSF, the outlays in excess of GAAP depreciation charges since our purchase 14 years
ago have totaled a staggering $22 billion or more than $1 1⁄ 2 billion annually. Ouch! That sort of
gap means BNSF dividends paid to Berkshire, its owner, will regularly fall considerably short of
BNSF’s reported earnings unless we regularly increase the railroad’s debt. And that we do not
intend to do.
Consequently, Berkshire is receiving an acceptable return on its purchase price, though less
than it might appear, and also a pittance on the replacement value of the property. That’s no
surprise to me or Berkshire’s board of directors. It explains why we could buy BNSF in 2010 at a
small fraction of its replacement value.
North America’s rail system moves huge quantities of coal, grain, autos, imported and
exported goods, etc. one-way for long distances and those trips often create a revenue problem for
back-hauls. Weather conditions are extreme and frequently hamper or even stymie the utilization
of track, bridges and equipment. Flooding can be a nightmare. None of this is a surprise. While I
sit in an always-comfortable office, railroading is an outdoor activity with many employees
working under trying and sometimes dangerous conditions.
An evolving problem is that a growing percentage of Americans are not looking for the
difficult, and often lonely, employment conditions inherent in some rail operations. Engineers must
deal with the fact that among an American population of 335 million, some forlorn or
mentally-disturbed Americans are going to elect suicide by lying in front of a 100-car,
extraordinarily heavy train that can’t be stopped in less than a mile or more. Would you like to be