in that state, and have merged the company into Cornhusker 
Casualty.  There is potential in the homestate concept, but much 
work needs to be done in order to realize it.

     Our Workers Compensation operation suffered a severe loss 
when Frank DeNardo died last year at 37. Frank instinctively 
thought like an underwriter.  He was a superb technician and a 
fierce competitor; in short order he had straightened out major 
problems at the California Workers Compensation Division of 
National Indemnity.  Dan Grossman, who originally brought Frank 
to us, stepped in immediately after Frank’s death to continue 
that operation, which now utilizes Redwood Fire and Casualty, 
another Berkshire subsidiary, as the insuring vehicle.

     Our major Workers Compensation operation, Cypress Insurance 
Company, run by Milt Thornton, continues its outstanding record.  
Year after year Milt, like Phil Liesche, runs an underwriting 
operation that far outpaces his competition.  In the industry he 
is admired and copied, but not matched.

     Overall, we look for a significant decline in insurance 
volume in 1981 along with a poorer underwriting result.  We 
expect underwriting experience somewhat superior to that of the 
industry but, of course, so does most of the industry.  There 
will be some disappointments.
Textile and Retail Operations
During the past year we have cut back the scope of our 
textile business.  Operations at Waumbec Mills have been 
terminated, reluctantly but necessarily.  Some equipment was 
transferred to New Bedford but most has been sold, or will be, 
along with real estate.  Your Chairman made a costly mistake in 
not facing the realities of this situation sooner.

     At New Bedford we have reduced the number of looms operated 
by about one-third, abandoning some high-volume lines in which 
product differentiation was insignificant.  Even assuming 
everything went right - which it seldom did - these lines could 
not generate adequate returns related to investment.  And, over a 
full industry cycle, losses were the most likely result.

     Our remaining textile operation, still sizable, has been 
divided into a manufacturing and a sales division, each free to 
do business independent of the other.  Thus, distribution 
strengths and mill capabilities will not be wedded to each other.  
We have more than doubled capacity in our most profitable textile 
segment through a recent purchase of used 130-inch Saurer looms.  
Current conditions indicate another tough year in textiles, but 
with substantially less capital employed in the operation.

     Ben Rosner’s record at Associated Retail Stores continues to 
amaze us.  In a poor retailing year, Associated’s earnings 
continued excellent - and those earnings all were translated into 
cash.  On March 7, 1981 Associated will celebrate its 50th 
birthday.  Ben has run the business (along with Leo Simon, his 
partner from 1931 to 1966) in each of those fifty years.
Disposition of Illinois National Bank and Trust of Rockford
On December 31, 1980 we completed the exchange of 41,086 
shares of Rockford Bancorp Inc. (which owns 97.7% of Illinois 
National Bank) for a like number of shares of Berkshire Hathaway 
Inc.

     Our method of exchange allowed all Berkshire shareholders to 
maintain their proportional interest in the Bank (except for me; 
I was permitted 80% of my proportional share).  They were thus 
guaranteed an ownership position identical to that they would 
have attained had we followed a more conventional spinoff 
approach.  Twenty-four shareholders (of our approximate 1300) 
chose this proportional exchange option.

     We also allowed overexchanges, and thirty-nine additional 
shareholders accepted this option, thereby increasing their 
ownership in the Bank and decreasing their proportional ownership 
in Berkshire.  All got the full amount of Bancorp stock they 
requested, since the total shares desired by these thirty-nine 
holders was just slightly less than the number left available by 
the remaining 1200-plus holders of Berkshire who elected not to 
part with any Berkshire shares at all.  As the exchanger of last 
resort, I took the small balance (3% of Bancorp’s stock).  These 
shares, added to shares I received from my basic exchange 
allotment (80% of normal), gave me a slightly reduced 
proportional interest in the Bank and a slightly enlarged 
proportional interest in Berkshire.

     Management of the Bank is pleased with the outcome.  Bancorp 
will operate as an inexpensive and uncomplicated holding company 
owned by 65 shareholders.  And all of those shareholders will 
have become Bancorp owners through a conscious affirmative 
decision.
Financing
In August we sold $60 million of 12 3/4% notes due August 1, 
2005, with a sinking fund to begin in 1991.

     The managing underwriters, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette 
Securities Corporation, represented by Bill Fisher, and Chiles, 
Heider & Company, Inc., represented by Charlie Heider, did an 
absolutely first-class job from start to finish of the financing.

     Unlike most businesses, Berkshire did not finance because of 
any specific immediate needs.  Rather, we borrowed because we 
think that, over a period far shorter than the life of the loan, 
we will have many opportunities to put the money to good use.  
The most attractive opportunities may present themselves at a 
time when credit is extremely expensive - or even unavailable.  
At such a time we want to have plenty of financial firepower.

     Our acquisition preferences run toward businesses that 
generate cash, not those that consume it.  As inflation 
intensifies, more and more companies find that they must spend 
all funds they generate internally just to maintain their 
existing physical volume of business.  There is a certain mirage-
like quality to such operations.  However attractive the earnings 
numbers, we remain leery of businesses that never seem able to 
convert such pretty numbers into no-strings-attached cash.

     Businesses meeting our standards are not easy to find. (Each 
year we read of hundreds of corporate acquisitions; only a 
handful would have been of interest to us.) And logical expansion 
of our present operations is not easy to implement.  But we’ll 
continue to utilize both avenues in our attempts to further 
Berkshire’s growth.

     Under all circumstances we plan to operate with plenty of 
liquidity, with debt that is moderate in size and properly 
structured, and with an abundance of capital strength.  Our 
return on equity is penalized somewhat by this conservative 
approach, but it is the only one with which we feel comfortable.


               *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *                


     Gene Abegg, founder of our long-owned bank in Rockford, died 
on July 2, 1980 at the age of 82.  As a friend, banker and 
citizen, he was unsurpassed.

     You learn a great deal about a person when you purchase a 
business from him and he then stays on to run it as an employee 
rather than as an owner.  Before the purchase the seller knows 
the business intimately, whereas you start from scratch.  The 
seller has dozens of opportunities to mislead the buyer - through 
omissions, ambiguities, and misdirection.  After the check has 
changed hands, subtle (and not so subtle) changes of attitude can 
occur and implicit understandings can evaporate.  As in the 
courtship-marriage sequence, disappointments are not infrequent.

     From the time we first met, Gene shot straight 100% of the 
time - the only behavior pattern he had within him.  At the 
outset of negotiations, he laid all negative factors face up on 
the table; on the other hand, for years after the transaction was 
completed he would tell me periodically of some previously 
undiscussed items of value that had come with our purchase.

     Though he was already 71 years of age when he sold us the 
Bank, Gene subsequently worked harder for us than he had for 
himself.  He never delayed reporting a problem for a minute, but 
problems were few with Gene.  What else would you expect from a 
man who, at the time of the bank holiday in 1933, had enough cash 
on the premises to pay all depositors in full?  Gene never forgot 
he was handling other people’s money.  Though this fiduciary 
attitude was always dominant, his superb managerial skills 
enabled the Bank to regularly achieve the top position nationally 
in profitability.

     Gene was in charge of the Illinois National for close to 
fifty years - almost one-quarter of the lifetime of our country.  
George Mead, a wealthy industrialist, brought him in from Chicago 
to open a new bank after a number of other banks in Rockford had 
failed.  Mr. Mead put up the money and Gene ran the show.  His 
talent for leadership soon put its stamp on virtually every major 
civic activity in Rockford.

     Dozens of Rockford citizens have told me over the years of 
help Gene extended to them.  In some cases this help was 
financial; in all cases it involved much wisdom, empathy and 
friendship.  He always offered the same to me.  Because of our 
respective ages and positions I was sometimes the junior partner, 
sometimes the senior.  Whichever the relationship, it always was 
a special one, and I miss it.


                                          Warren E. Buffett
February 27, 1981                         Chairman of the Board
