
$ 4,230

$ 3,699

$ 3,039

Our income and expense data conforming to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) is on
page 29. In contrast, the operating expense figures above are non-GAAP and exclude some purchase-accounting
items (primarily the amortization of certain intangible assets). We present the data in this manner because Charlie
and I believe the adjusted numbers more accurately reflect the true economic expenses and profits of the businesses
aggregated in the table than do GAAP figures.

13

I won’t explain all of the adjustments – some are tiny and arcane – but serious investors should understand
the disparate nature of intangible assets: Some truly deplete over time while others in no way lose value. With
software, for example, amortization charges are very real expenses. Charges against other intangibles such as the
amortization of customer relationships, however, arise through purchase-accounting rules and are clearly not real
costs. GAAP accounting draws no distinction between the two types of charges. Both, that is, are recorded as expenses
when earnings are calculated – even though from an investor’s viewpoint they could not be more different.
In the GAAP-compliant figures we show on page 29, amortization charges of $648 million for the
companies included in this section are deducted as expenses. We would call about 20% of these “real,” the rest not.
This difference has become significant because of the many acquisitions we have made. It will almost certainly rise
further as we acquire more companies.
Eventually, of course, the non-real charges disappear when the assets to which they’re related become
fully amortized. But this usually takes 15 years and – alas – it will be my successor whose reported earnings get the
benefit of their expiration.
Every dime of depreciation expense we report, however, is a real cost. And that’s true at almost all other
companies as well. When Wall Streeters tout EBITDA as a valuation guide, button your wallet.
Our public reports of earnings will, of course, continue to conform to GAAP. To embrace reality,
however, remember to add back most of the amortization charges we report.
************
The crowd of companies in this section sells products ranging from lollipops to jet airplanes. Some of
these businesses, measured by earnings on unleveraged net tangible assets, enjoy terrific economics, producing
profits that run from 25% after-tax to far more than 100%. Others generate good returns in the area of 12% to 20%.
A few, however, have very poor returns, a result of some serious mistakes I made in my job of capital allocation. I
was not misled: I simply was wrong in my evaluation of the economic dynamics of the company or the industry in
which it operated.
Fortunately, my blunders usually involved relatively small acquisitions. Our large buys have generally
worked out well and, in a few cases, more than well. I have not, however, made my last mistake in purchasing
either businesses or stocks. Not everything works out as planned.
Viewed as a single entity, the companies in this group are an excellent business. They employed an
average of $25 billion of net tangible assets during 2013 and, with large quantities of excess cash and little
leverage, earned 16.7% after-tax on that capital.
Of course, a business with terrific economics can be a bad investment if the purchase price is excessive.
We have paid substantial premiums to net tangible assets for most of our businesses, a cost that is reflected in the
large figure we show for goodwill. Overall, however, we are getting a decent return on the capital we have
deployed in this sector. Furthermore, the intrinsic value of these businesses, in aggregate, exceeds their carrying
value by a good margin. Even so, the difference between intrinsic value and carrying value in the insurance and
regulated-industry segments is far greater. It is there that the truly big winners reside.
************
We have far too many companies in this group to comment on them individually. Moreover, both current
and potential competitors read this report. In a few of our businesses we might be disadvantaged if they knew our
numbers. So, in some of our operations that are not of a size material to an evaluation of Berkshire, we only
disclose what is required. You can find a good bit of detail about many of our operations, however, on pages 80-84.

14

I can’t resist, however, giving you an update on Nebraska Furniture Mart’s expansion into Texas. I’m not
covering this event because of its economic importance to Berkshire – it takes more than a new store to move the
needle on Berkshire’s $225 billion equity base. But I’ve now worked 30 years with the marvelous Blumkin family,
and I’m excited about the remarkable store – truly Texas-sized – it is building at The Colony, in the northern part of
the Dallas metropolitan area.
When the store is completed next year, NFM will have – under one roof, and on a 433-acre site – 1.8 million
square feet of retail and supporting warehouse space. View the project’s progress at www.nfm.com/texas. NFM
already owns the two highest-volume home furnishings stores in the country (in Omaha and Kansas City, Kansas),
each doing about $450 million annually. I predict the Texas store will blow these records away. If you live anywhere
near Dallas, come check us out.
I think back to August 30, 1983 – my birthday – when I went to see Mrs. B (Rose Blumkin), carrying a
1 1⁄ 4-page purchase proposal for NFM that I had drafted. (It’s reproduced on pages 114 - 115.) Mrs. B accepted my
offer without changing a word, and we completed the deal without the involvement of investment bankers or
lawyers (an experience that can only be described as heavenly). Though the company’s financial statements were
unaudited, I had no worries. Mrs. B simply told me what was what, and her word was good enough for me.
Mrs. B was 89 at the time and worked until 103 – definitely my kind of woman. Take a look at NFM’s
financial statements from 1946 on pages 116 - 117. Everything NFM now owns comes from (a) that $72,264 of net
worth and $50 – no zeros omitted – of cash the company then possessed, and (b) the incredible talents of Mrs. B,
her son, Louie, and his sons Ron and Irv.
The punch line to this story is that Mrs. B never spent a day in school. Moreover, she emigrated from
Russia to America knowing not a word of English. But she loved her adopted country: At Mrs. B’s request, the
family always sang God Bless America at its gatherings.
Aspiring business managers should look hard at the plain, but rare, attributes that produced Mrs. B’s
incredible success. Students from 40 universities visit me every year, and I have them start the day with a visit to
NFM. If they absorb Mrs. B’s lessons, they need none from me.
Finance and Financial Products
“Clayton’s loan portfolio will likely grow to at least $5 billion in not too many years and, with sensible
credit standards in place, should deliver significant earnings.”
— 2003 Annual Report
This sector, our smallest, includes two rental companies, XTRA (trailers) and CORT (furniture), as well as
Clayton Homes, the country’s leading producer and financer of manufactured homes. Aside from these 100%owned subsidiaries, we also include in this category a collection of financial assets and our 50% interest in
Berkadia Commercial Mortgage.
Clayton is placed in this section because it owns and services 326,569 mortgages, totaling $13.6 billion. In
recent years, as manufactured home sales plummeted, a high percentage of Clayton’s earnings came from this
mortgage business.
In 2013, however, the sale of new homes began to pick up and earnings from both manufacturing and
retailing are again becoming significant. Clayton remains America’s number one homebuilder: Its 2013 output of
29,547 homes accounted for about 4.7% of all single-family residences built in the country. Kevin Clayton,
Clayton’s CEO, has done a magnificent job of guiding the company through the severe housing depression. Now,
his job – definitely more fun these days – includes the prospect of another earnings gain in 2014.

15

CORT and XTRA are leaders in their industries as well. And Jeff Pederson and Bill Franz will keep them
on top. We are backing their plans through purchases of equipment that enlarge their rental potential.
Here’s the pre-tax earnings recap for this sector:
2013
Berkadia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clayton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CORT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
XTRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net financial income* . . . . . . . . . . .