forecast just when and how the trade problem will be resolved, it’s improbable that the resolution will
foster an increase in the value of our currency relative to that of our trading partners.
We hope the U.S. adopts policies that will quickly and substantially reduce the current-account
deficit. True, a prompt solution would likely cause Berkshire to record losses on its foreign-exchange
contracts. But Berkshire’s resources remain heavily concentrated in dollar-based assets, and both a strong
dollar and a low-inflation environment are very much in our interest.
If you wish to keep abreast of trade and currency matters, read The Financial Times. This
London-based paper has long been the leading source for daily international financial news and now has an
excellent American edition. Both its reporting and commentary on trade are first-class.
************
And, again, our usual caveat: macro-economics is a tough game in which few people, Charlie and
I included, have demonstrated skill. We may well turn out to be wrong in our currency judgments.
(Indeed, the fact that so many pundits now predict weakness for the dollar makes us uneasy.) If so, our
mistake will be very public. The irony is that if we chose the opposite course, leaving all of Berkshire’s
assets in dollars even as they declined significantly in value, no one would notice our mistake.
John Maynard Keynes said in his masterful The General Theory: “Worldly wisdom teaches that it
is better for reputation to fail conventionally than to succeed unconventionally.” (Or, to put it in less elegant
terms, lemmings as a class may be derided but never does an individual lemming get criticized.) From a
reputational standpoint, Charlie and I run a clear risk with our foreign-exchange commitment. But we
believe in managing Berkshire as if we owned 100% of it ourselves. And, were that the case, we would not
be following a dollar-only policy.
Miscellaneous
•

Last year I told you about a group of University of Tennessee finance students who played a key
role in our $1.7 billion acquisition of Clayton Homes. Earlier, they had been brought to Omaha by
their professor, Al Auxier – he brings a class every year – to tour Nebraska Furniture Mart and
Borsheim’s, eat at Gorat’s and have a Q&A session with me at Kiewit Plaza. These visitors, like
those who come for our annual meeting, leave impressed by both the city and its friendly
residents.
Other colleges and universities have now come calling. This school year we will have visiting
classes, ranging in size from 30 to 100 students, from Chicago, Dartmouth (Tuck), Delaware State,
Florida State, Indiana, Iowa, Iowa State, Maryland, Nebraska, Northwest Nazarene, Pennsylvania
(Wharton), Stanford, Tennessee, Texas, Texas A&M, Toronto (Rotman), Union and Utah. Most
of the students are MBA candidates, and I’ve been impressed by their quality. They are keenly
interested in business and investments, but their questions indicate that they also have more on
their minds than simply making money. I always feel good after meeting them.

21

At our sessions, I tell the newcomers the story of the Tennessee group and its spotting of Clayton
Homes. I do this in the spirit of the farmer who enters his hen house with an ostrich egg and
admonishes the flock: “I don’t like to complain, girls, but this is just a small sample of what the
competition is doing.” To date, our new scouts have not brought us deals. But their mission in
life has been made clear to them.
•

You should be aware of an accounting rule that mildly distorts our financial statements in a paintoday, gain-tomorrow manner. Berkshire purchases life insurance policies from individuals and
corporations who would otherwise surrender them for cash. As the new holder of the policies, we
pay any premiums that become due and ultimately – when the original holder dies – collect the
face value of the policies.
The original policyholder is usually in good health when we purchase the policy. Still, the price
we pay for it is always well above its cash surrender value (“CSV”). Sometimes the original
policyholder has borrowed against the CSV to make premium payments. In that case, the
remaining CSV will be tiny and our purchase price will be a large multiple of what the original
policyholder would have received, had he cashed out by surrendering it.
Under accounting rules, we must immediately charge as a realized capital loss the excess over
CSV that we pay upon purchasing the policy. We also must make additional charges each year for
the amount by which the premium we pay to keep the policy in force exceeds the increase in CSV.
But obviously, we don’t think these bookkeeping charges represent economic losses. If we did,
we wouldn’t buy the policies.
During 2004, we recorded net “losses” from the purchase of policies (and from the premium
payments required to maintain them) totaling $207 million, which was charged against realized
investment gains in our earnings statement (included in “other” in the table on page 17). When
the proceeds from these policies are received in the future, we will record as realized investment
gain the excess over the then-CSV.

•

Two post-bubble governance reforms have been particularly useful at Berkshire, and I fault myself
for not putting them in place many years ago. The first involves regular meetings of directors
without the CEO present. I’ve sat on 19 boards, and on many occasions this process would have
led to dubious plans being examined more thoroughly. In a few cases, CEO changes that were
needed would also have been made more promptly. There is no downside to this process, and
there are many possible benefits.
The second reform concerns the “whistleblower line,” an arrangement through which employees
can send information to me and the board’s audit committee without fear of reprisal. Berkshire’s
extreme decentralization makes this system particularly valuable both to me and the committee.
(In a sprawling “city” of 180,000 – Berkshire’s current employee count – not every sparrow that
falls will be noticed at headquarters.) Most of the complaints we have received are of “the guy
next to me has bad breath” variety, but on occasion I have learned of important problems at our
subsidiaries that I otherwise would have missed. The issues raised are usually not of a type
discoverable by audit, but relate instead to personnel and business practices. Berkshire would be
more valuable today if I had put in a whistleblower line decades ago.

•

Charlie and I love the idea of shareholders thinking and behaving like owners. Sometimes that
requires them to be pro-active. And in this arena large institutional owners should lead the way.
So far, however, the moves made by institutions have been less than awe-inspiring. Usually,
they’ve focused on minutiae and ignored the three questions that truly count. First, does the
company have the right CEO? Second, is he/she overreaching in terms of compensation? Third,
are proposed acquisitions more likely to create or destroy per-share value?

22

On such questions, the interests of the CEO may well differ from those of the shareholders.
Directors, moreover, sometimes lack the knowledge or gumption to overrule the CEO. Therefore,
it’s vital that large owners focus on these three questions and speak up when necessary.
Instead many simply follow a “checklist” approach to the issue du jour. Last year I was on the
receiving end of a judgment reached in that manner. Several institutional shareholders and their
advisors decided I lacked “independence” in my role as a director of Coca-Cola. One group
wanted me removed from the board and another simply wanted me booted from the audit
committee.
My first impulse was to secretly fund the group behind the second idea. Why anyone would wish
to be on an audit committee is beyond me. But since directors must be assigned to one committee
or another, and since no CEO wants me on his compensation committee, it’s often been my lot to
get an audit committee assignment. As it turned out, the institutions that opposed me failed and I
was re-elected to the audit job. (I fought off the urge to ask for a recount.)
Some institutions questioned my “independence” because, among other things, McLane and Dairy
Queen buy lots of Coke products. (Do they want us to favor Pepsi?) But independence is defined
in Webster’s as “not subject to control by others.” I’m puzzled how anyone could conclude that
our Coke purchases would “control” my decision-making when the counterweight is the wellbeing of $8 billion of Coke stock held by Berkshire. Assuming I’m even marginally rational,
elementary arithmetic should make it clear that my heart and mind belong to the owners of Coke,
not to its management.
I can’t resist mentioning that Jesus understood the calibration of independence far more clearly
than do the protesting institutions. In Matthew 6:21 He observed: “For where your treasure is,
there will your heart be also.” Even to an institutional investor, $8 billion should qualify as
“treasure” that dwarfs any profits Berkshire might earn on its routine transactions with Coke.