# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1983

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
This past year our registered shareholders increased from 
about 1900 to about 2900.  Most of this growth resulted from our 
merger with Blue Chip Stamps, but there also was an acceleration 
in the pace of “natural” increase that has raised us from the 
1000 level a few years ago.

     With so many new shareholders, it’s appropriate to summarize 
the major business principles we follow that pertain to the 
manager-owner relationship:
o
Although our form is corporate, our attitude is 
partnership.  Charlie Munger and I think of our shareholders as 
owner-partners, and of ourselves as managing partners.  (Because 
of the size of our shareholdings we also are, for better or 
worse, controlling partners.) We do not view the company itself 
as the ultimate owner of our business assets but, instead, view 
the company as a conduit through which our shareholders own the 
assets.
o
In line with this owner-orientation, our directors are all 
major shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway.  In the case of at 
least four of the five, over 50% of family net worth is 
represented by holdings of Berkshire.  We eat our own cooking.
o
Our long-term economic goal (subject to some qualifications 
mentioned later) is to maximize the average annual rate of gain 
in intrinsic business value on a per-share basis.  We do not 
measure the economic significance or performance of Berkshire by 
its size; we measure by per-share progress.  We are certain that 
the rate of per-share progress will diminish in the future - a 
greatly enlarged capital base will see to that.  But we will be 
disappointed if our rate does not exceed that of the average 
large American corporation.
o
Our preference would be to reach this goal by directly 
owning a diversified group of businesses that generate cash and 
consistently earn above-average returns on capital.  Our second 
choice is to own parts of similar businesses, attained primarily 
through purchases of marketable common stocks by our insurance 
subsidiaries.  The price and availability of businesses and the 
need for insurance capital determine any given year’s capital 
allocation.
o
Because of this two-pronged approach to business ownership 
and because of the limitations of conventional accounting, 
consolidated reported earnings may reveal relatively little about 
our true economic performance.  Charlie and I, both as owners and 
managers, virtually ignore such consolidated numbers.  However, 
we will also report to you the earnings of each major business we 
control, numbers we consider of great importance.  These figures, 
along with other information we will supply about the individual 
businesses, should generally aid you in making judgments about 
them.
o
Accounting consequences do not influence our operating or 
capital-allocation decisions.  When acquisition costs are 
similar, we much prefer to purchase $2 of earnings that is not 
reportable by us under standard accounting principles than to 
purchase $1 of earnings that is reportable.  This is precisely 
the choice that often faces us since entire businesses (whose 
earnings will be fully reportable) frequently sell for double the 
pro-rata price of small portions (whose earnings will be largely 
unreportable).  In aggregate and over time, we expect the 
unreported earnings to be fully reflected in our intrinsic 
business value through capital gains.
o
We rarely use much debt and, when we do, we attempt to 
structure it on a long-term fixed rate basis.  We will reject 
interesting opportunities rather than over-leverage our balance 
sheet.  This conservatism has penalized our results but it is the 
only behavior that leaves us comfortable, considering our 
fiduciary obligations to policyholders, depositors, lenders and 
the many equity holders who have committed unusually large 
portions of their net worth to our care.
o
A managerial “wish list” will not be filled at shareholder 
expense.  We will not diversify by purchasing entire businesses 
at control prices that ignore long-term economic consequences to 
our shareholders.  We will only do with your money what we would 
do with our own, weighing fully the values you can obtain by 
diversifying your own portfolios through direct purchases in the 
stock market.
o
We feel noble intentions should be checked periodically 
against results.  We test the wisdom of retaining earnings by 
assessing whether retention, over time, delivers shareholders at 
least $1 of market value for each $1 retained.  To date, this 
test has been met.  We will continue to apply it on a five-year 
rolling basis.  As our net worth grows, it is more difficult to 
use retained earnings wisely.
o
We will issue common stock only when we receive as much in 
business value as we give.  This rule applies to all forms of 
issuance - not only mergers or public stock offerings, but stock 
for-debt swaps, stock options, and convertible securities as 
well.  We will not sell small portions of your company - and that 
is what the issuance of shares amounts to - on a basis 
inconsistent with the value of the entire enterprise.
o
You should be fully aware of one attitude Charlie and I 
share that hurts our financial performance: regardless of price, 
we have no interest at all in selling any good businesses that 
Berkshire owns, and are very reluctant to sell sub-par businesses 
as long as we expect them to generate at least some cash and as 
long as we feel good about their managers and labor relations.  
We hope not to repeat the capital-allocation mistakes that led us 
into such sub-par businesses.  And we react with great caution to 
suggestions that our poor businesses can be restored to 
satisfactory profitability by major capital expenditures.  (The 
projections will be dazzling - the advocates will be sincere - 
but, in the end, major additional investment in a terrible 
industry usually is about as rewarding as struggling in 
quicksand.) Nevertheless, gin rummy managerial behavior (discard 
your least promising business at each turn) is not our style.  We 
would rather have our overall results penalized a bit than engage 
in it.
o
We will be candid in our reporting to you, emphasizing the 
pluses and minuses important in appraising business value.  Our 
guideline is to tell you the business facts that we would want to 
know if our positions were reversed.  We owe you no less.  
Moreover, as a company with a major communications business, it 
would be inexcusable for us to apply lesser standards of 
accuracy, balance and incisiveness when reporting on ourselves 
than we would expect our news people to apply when reporting on 
others.  We also believe candor benefits us as managers: the CEO 
who misleads others in public may eventually mislead himself in 
private.
o
Despite our policy of candor, we will discuss our 
activities in marketable securities only to the extent legally 
required.  Good investment ideas are rare, valuable and subject 
to competitive appropriation just as good product or business 
acquisition ideas are.  Therefore, we normally will not talk 
about our investment ideas.  This ban extends even to securities 
we have sold (because we may purchase them again) and to stocks 
we are incorrectly rumored to be buying.  If we deny those 
reports but say “no comment” on other occasions, the no-comments 
become confirmation.

     That completes the catechism, and we can now move on to the 
high point of 1983 - the acquisition of a majority interest in 
Nebraska Furniture Mart and our association with Rose Blumkin and 
her family.
Nebraska Furniture Mart
Last year, in discussing how managers with bright, but 
adrenalin-soaked minds scramble after foolish acquisitions, I 
quoted Pascal: “It has struck me that all the misfortunes of men 
spring from the single cause that they are unable to stay quietly 
in one room.”

     Even Pascal would have left the room for Mrs. Blumkin.

     About 67 years ago Mrs. Blumkin, then 23, talked her way 
past a border guard to leave Russia for America.  She had no 
formal education, not even at the grammar school level, and knew 
no English.  After some years in this country, she learned the 
language when her older daughter taught her, every evening, the 
words she had learned in school during the day.

     In 1937, after many years of selling used clothing, Mrs.  
Blumkin had saved $500 with which to realize her dream of opening 
a furniture store.  Upon seeing the American Furniture Mart in 
Chicago - then the center of the nation’s wholesale furniture 
activity - she decided to christen her dream Nebraska Furniture 
Mart.

     She met every obstacle you would expect (and a few you 
wouldn’t) when a business endowed with only $500 and no 
locational or product advantage goes up against rich, long-
entrenched competition.  At one early point, when her tiny 
resources ran out, “Mrs.  B” (a personal trademark now as well 
recognized in Greater Omaha as Coca-Cola or Sanka) coped in a way 
not taught at business schools: she simply sold the furniture and 
appliances from her home in order to pay creditors precisely as 
promised.

     Omaha retailers began to recognize that Mrs. B would offer 
customers far better deals than they had been giving, and they 