models that are constantly being introduced. (A simulator can cost us more than $12 million, and we have
273 of them.) Our fixed assets, after depreciation, now amount to $1.079 billion. Pre-tax operating
earnings in 2007 were $270 million, a gain of $159 million since 1996. That gain gave us a good, but far
from See’s-like, return on our incremental investment of $509 million.
Consequently, if measured only by economic returns, FlightSafety is an excellent but not
extraordinary business. Its put-up-more-to-earn-more experience is that faced by most corporations. For
example, our large investment in regulated utilities falls squarely in this category. We will earn
considerably more money in this business ten years from now, but we will invest many billions to make it.
Now let’s move to the gruesome. The worst sort of business is one that grows rapidly, requires
significant capital to engender the growth, and then earns little or no money. Think airlines. Here a
durable competitive advantage has proven elusive ever since the days of the Wright Brothers. Indeed, if a
farsighted capitalist had been present at Kitty Hawk, he would have done his successors a huge favor by
shooting Orville down.
The airline industry’s demand for capital ever since that first flight has been insatiable. Investors
have poured money into a bottomless pit, attracted by growth when they should have been repelled by it.
And I, to my shame, participated in this foolishness when I had Berkshire buy U.S. Air preferred stock in
1989. As the ink was drying on our check, the company went into a tailspin, and before long our preferred
dividend was no longer being paid. But we then got very lucky. In one of the recurrent, but always
misguided, bursts of optimism for airlines, we were actually able to sell our shares in 1998 for a hefty gain.
In the decade following our sale, the company went bankrupt. Twice.
To sum up, think of three types of “savings accounts.” The great one pays an extraordinarily high
interest rate that will rise as the years pass. The good one pays an attractive rate of interest that will be
earned also on deposits that are added. Finally, the gruesome account both pays an inadequate interest rate
and requires you to keep adding money at those disappointing returns.
************
And now it’s confession time. It should be noted that no consultant, board of directors or
investment banker pushed me into the mistakes I will describe. In tennis parlance, they were all unforced
errors.
To begin with, I almost blew the See’s purchase. The seller was asking $30 million, and I was
adamant about not going above $25 million. Fortunately, he caved. Otherwise I would have balked, and
that $1.35 billion would have gone to somebody else.
About the time of the See’s purchase, Tom Murphy, then running Capital Cities Broadcasting,
called and offered me the Dallas-Fort Worth NBC station for $35 million. The station came with the Fort
Worth paper that Capital Cities was buying, and under the “cross-ownership” rules Murph had to divest it.
I knew that TV stations were See’s-like businesses that required virtually no capital investment and had
excellent prospects for growth. They were simple to run and showered cash on their owners.
Moreover, Murph, then as now, was a close friend, a man I admired as an extraordinary manager
and outstanding human being. He knew the television business forward and backward and would not have
called me unless he felt a purchase was certain to work. In effect Murph whispered “buy” into my ear. But
I didn’t listen.

8

In 2006, the station earned $73 million pre-tax, bringing its total earnings since I turned down the
deal to at least $1 billion – almost all available to its owner for other purposes. Moreover, the property now
has a capital value of about $800 million. Why did I say “no”? The only explanation is that my brain had
gone on vacation and forgot to notify me. (My behavior resembled that of a politician Molly Ivins once
described: “If his I.Q. was any lower, you would have to water him twice a day.”)
Finally, I made an even worse mistake when I said “yes” to Dexter, a shoe business I bought in
1993 for $433 million in Berkshire stock (25,203 shares of A). What I had assessed as durable competitive
advantage vanished within a few years. But that’s just the beginning: By using Berkshire stock, I
compounded this error hugely. That move made the cost to Berkshire shareholders not $400 million, but
rather $3.5 billion. In essence, I gave away 1.6% of a wonderful business – one now valued at $220 billion
– to buy a worthless business.
To date, Dexter is the worst deal that I’ve made. But I’ll make more mistakes in the future – you
can bet on that. A line from Bobby Bare’s country song explains what too often happens with acquisitions:
“I’ve never gone to bed with an ugly woman, but I’ve sure woke up with a few.”
************
Now, let’s examine the four major operating sectors of Berkshire. Each sector has vastly different
balance sheet and income account characteristics. Therefore, lumping them together impedes analysis. So
we’ll present them as four separate businesses, which is how Charlie and I view them.
Insurance
The best anecdote I’ve heard during the current presidential campaign came from Mitt Romney,
who asked his wife, Ann, “When we were young, did you ever in your wildest dreams think I might be
president?” To which she replied, “Honey, you weren’t in my wildest dreams.”
When we first entered the property/casualty insurance business in 1967, my wildest dreams did
not envision our current operation. Here’s how we did in the first five years after purchasing National
Indemnity:
Year
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971

Underwriting Profit (Loss)
Float
(in millions)
$ 0.4
$18.5
0.6
21.3
0.1
25.4
(0.4)
39.4
1.4
65.6

To put it charitably, we were a slow starter. But things changed. Here’s the record of the last five
years:
Year
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007

Underwriting Profit (Loss)
Float
(in millions)
$1,718
$44,220
1,551
46,094
53
49,287
3,838
50,887
3,374
58,698

This metamorphosis has been accomplished by some extraordinary managers. Let’s look at what
each has achieved.

9

•

GEICO possesses the widest moat of any of our insurers, one carefully protected and expanded by
Tony Nicely, its CEO. Last year – again – GEICO had the best growth record among major auto
insurers, increasing its market share to 7.2%. When Berkshire acquired control in 1995, that share
was 2.5%. Not coincidentally, annual ad expenditures by GEICO have increased from $31 million
to $751 million during the same period.
Tony, now 64, joined GEICO at 18. Every day since, he has been passionate about the company –
proud of how it could both save money for its customers and provide growth opportunities for its
associates. Even now, with sales at $12 billion, Tony feels GEICO is just getting started. So do I.
Here’s some evidence. In the last three years, GEICO has increased its share of the motorcycle
market from 2.1% to 6%. We’ve also recently begun writing policies on ATVs and RVs. And in
November we wrote our first commercial auto policy. GEICO and National Indemnity are
working together in the commercial field, and early results are very encouraging.
Even in aggregate, these lines will remain a small fraction of our personal auto volume.
Nevertheless, they should deliver a growing stream of underwriting profits and float.

•

General Re, our international reinsurer, is by far our largest source of “home-grown” float – $23
billion at yearend. This operation is now a huge asset for Berkshire. Our ownership, however,
had a shaky start.
For decades, General Re was the Tiffany of reinsurers, admired by all for its underwriting skills
and discipline. This reputation, unfortunately, outlived its factual underpinnings, a flaw that I
completely missed when I made the decision in 1998 to merge with General Re. The General Re
of 1998 was not operated as the General Re of 1968 or 1978.
Now, thanks to Joe Brandon, General Re’s CEO, and his partner, Tad Montross, the luster of the
company has been restored. Joe and Tad have been running the business for six years and have
been doing first-class business in a first-class way, to use the words of J. P. Morgan. They have
restored discipline to underwriting, reserving and the selection of clients.
Their job was made more difficult by costly and time-consuming legacy problems, both in the
U.S. and abroad. Despite that diversion, Joe and Tad have delivered excellent underwriting results
while skillfully repositioning the company for the future.

•

Since joining Berkshire in 1986, Ajit Jain has built a truly great specialty reinsurance operation
from scratch. For one-of-a-kind mammoth transactions, the world now turns to him.
Last year I told you in detail about the Equitas transfer of huge, but capped, liabilities to Berkshire
for a single premium of $7.1 billion. At this very early date, our experience has been good. But