was adopted and the country’s energies were unleashed.

7

True, our country in its infancy sometimes borrowed abroad to supplement our own
savings. But, concurrently, we needed many Americans to consistently save and then needed
those savers or other Americans to wisely deploy the capital thus made available. If America had
consumed all that it produced, the country would have been spinning its wheels.
The American process has not always been pretty – our country has forever had many
scoundrels and promoters who seek to take advantage of those who mistakenly trust them with
their savings. But even with such malfeasance – which remains in full force today – and also
much deployment of capital that eventually floundered because of brutal competition or
disruptive innovation, the savings of Americans has delivered a quantity and quality of output
beyond the dreams of any colonist.
From a base of only four million people – and despite a brutal internal war early on,
pitting one American against another – America changed the world in the blink of a celestial eye.
************
In a very minor way, Berkshire shareholders have participated in the American miracle by
foregoing dividends, thereby electing to reinvest rather than consume. Originally, this
reinvestment was tiny, almost meaningless, but over time, it mushroomed, reflecting the mixture
of a sustained culture of savings, combined with the magic of long-term compounding.
Berkshire’s activities now impact all corners of our country. And we are not finished.
Companies die for many reasons but, unlike the fate of humans, old age itself is not lethal.
Berkshire today is far more youthful than it was in 1965.
However, as Charlie and I have always acknowledged, Berkshire would not have
achieved its results in any locale except America whereas America would have been every bit the
success it has been if Berkshire had never existed.
************
So thank you, Uncle Sam. Someday your nieces and nephews at Berkshire hope to send
you even larger payments than we did in 2024. Spend it wisely. Take care of the many who, for
no fault of their own, get the short straws in life. They deserve better. And never forget that we
need you to maintain a stable currency and that result requires both wisdom and vigilance on
your part.
Property-Casualty Insurance
P/C insurance continues to be Berkshire’s core business. The industry follows a financial
model that is rare – very rare – among giant businesses.
Customarily, companies incur costs for labor, materials, inventories, plant and equipment,
etc. before – or concurrently with – the sale of their products or services. Consequently, their
CEOs have a good fix on knowing the cost of their product before they sell it. If the selling price
is less than its cost, managers soon learn they have a problem. Hemorrhaging cash is hard to
ignore.
8

When writing P/C insurance, we receive payment upfront and much later learn what our
product has cost us – sometimes a moment of truth that is delayed as much as 30 or more years.
(We are still making substantial payments on asbestos exposures that occurred 50 or more years
ago.)
This mode of operations has the desirable effect of giving P/C insurers cash before
they incur most expenses but carries with it the risk that the company can be losing
money – sometimes mountains of money – before the CEO and directors realize what is
happening.
Certain lines of insurance minimize this mismatch, such as crop insurance or hail damage
in which losses are quickly reported, evaluated and paid. Other lines, however, can lead to
executive and shareholder bliss as the company is going broke. Think coverages such as medical
malpractice or product liability. In “long-tail” lines, a P/C insurer may report large but fictitious
profits to its owners and regulators for many years – even decades. The accounting can be
particularly dangerous if the CEO is an optimist or a crook. These possibilities are not fanciful:
History reveals a large number of each species.
In recent decades, this “money-up-front, loss-payments-later” model has allowed
Berkshire to invest large sums (“float”) while generally delivering what we believe to be a small
underwriting profit. We make estimates for “surprises” and, so far, these estimates have been
sufficient.
We are not deterred by the dramatic and growing loss payments sustained by our
activities. (As I write this, think wildfires.) It’s our job to price to absorb these and unemotionally
take our lumps when surprises develop. It’s also our job to contest “runaway” verdicts, spurious
litigation and outright fraudulent behavior.
Under Ajit, our insurance operation has blossomed from an obscure Omaha-based
company into a world leader, renowned for both its taste for risk and its Gibraltar-like financial
strength. Moreover, Greg, our directors and I all have a very large investment in Berkshire in
relation to any compensation we receive. We do not use options or other one-sided forms of
compensation; if you lose money, so do we. This approach encourages caution but does not
ensure foresight.
************
P/C insurance growth is dependent on increased economic risk. No risk – no need for
insurance.
Think back only 135 years when the world had no autos, trucks or airplanes. Now there
are 300 million vehicles in the U.S. alone, a massive fleet causing huge damage daily. Property
damage arising from hurricanes, tornadoes and wildfires is massive, growing and increasingly
unpredictable in their patterns and eventual costs.

9

It would be foolish – make that madness – to write ten-year policies for these coverages,
but we believe one-year assumption of such risks is generally manageable. If we change our
minds, we will change the contracts we offer. During my lifetime, auto insurers have generally
abandoned one-year policies and switched to the six-month variety. This change reduced float
but allowed more intelligent underwriting.
************
No private insurer has the willingness to take on the amount of risk that Berkshire can
provide. At times, this advantage can be important. But we also need to shrink when prices are
inadequate. We must never write inadequately-priced policies in order to stay in the game. That
policy is corporate suicide.
Properly pricing P/C insurance is part art, part science and is definitely not a business for
optimists. Mike Goldberg, the Berkshire executive who recruited Ajit, said it best: “We want our
underwriters to daily come to work nervous, but not paralyzed.”
************
All things considered, we like the P/C insurance business. Berkshire can financially and
psychologically handle extreme losses without blinking. We are also not dependent on reinsurers
and that gives us a material and enduring cost advantage. Finally, we have outstanding managers
(no optimists) and are particularly well-situated to utilize the substantial sums P/C insurance
delivers for investment.
Over the past two decades, our insurance business has generated $32 billion of after-tax
profits from underwriting, about 3.3 cents per dollar of sales after income tax. Meanwhile, our
float has grown from $46 billion to $171 billion. The float is likely to grow a bit over time and,
with intelligent underwriting (and some luck), has a reasonable prospect of being costless.
Berkshire Increases its Japanese Investments
A small but important exception to our U.S.-based focus is our growing investment in
Japan.
It’s been almost six years since Berkshire began purchasing shares in five Japanese
companies that very successfully operate in a manner somewhat similar to Berkshire itself. The
five are (alphabetically) ITOCHU, Marubeni, Mitsubishi, Mitsui and Sumitomo. Each of these
large enterprises, in turn, owns interests in a vast array of businesses, many based in Japan but
others that operate throughout the world.

10

Berkshire made its first purchases involving the five in July 2019. We simply looked at
their financial records and were amazed at the low prices of their stocks. As the years have
passed, our admiration for these companies has consistently grown. Greg has met many times
with them, and I regularly follow their progress. Both of us like their capital deployment, their
managements and their attitude in respect to their investors.
Each of the five companies increase dividends when appropriate, they repurchase their
shares when it is sensible to do so, and their top managers are far less aggressive in their
compensation programs than their U.S. counterparts.
Our holdings of the five are for the very long term, and we are committed to supporting
their boards of directors. From the start, we also agreed to keep Berkshire’s holdings below 10%
of each company’s shares. But, as we approached this limit, the five companies agreed to
moderately relax the ceiling. Over time, you will likely see Berkshire’s ownership of all five
increase somewhat.
At yearend, Berkshire’s aggregate cost (in dollars) was $13.8 billion and the market value
of our holdings totaled $23.5 billion.
Meanwhile, Berkshire has consistently – but not pursuant to any formula – increased its
yen-denominated borrowings. All are at fixed rates, no “floaters.” Greg and I have no view on
future foreign exchange rates and therefore seek a position approximating currency-neutrality.
We are required, however, under GAAP rules to regularly recognize in our earnings a calculation