causing a loss and the probable cost if it does; (3) set a premium that, on average, will deliver a profit after both
prospective loss costs and operating expenses are covered; and (4) be willing to walk away if the appropriate
premium can’t be obtained.
Many insurers pass the first three tests and flunk the fourth. They simply can’t turn their back on business
that is being eagerly written by their competitors. That old line, “The other guy is doing it, so we must as well,”
spells trouble in any business, but in none more so than insurance.
Tad has observed all four of the insurance commandments, and it shows in his results. General Re’s huge
float has been considerably better than cost-free under his leadership, and we expect that, on average, to continue.
We are particularly enthusiastic about General Re’s international life reinsurance business, which has grown
consistently and profitably since we acquired the company in 1998.
It can be remembered that soon after we purchased General Re, it was beset by problems that caused
commentators – and me as well, briefly – to believe I had made a huge mistake. That day is long gone. General Re
is now a gem.
************
Finally, there is GEICO, the insurer on which I cut my teeth 64 years ago. GEICO is managed by Tony
Nicely, who joined the company at 18 and completed 53 years of service in 2014. Tony became CEO in 1993, and
since then the company has been flying. There is no better manager than Tony.
When I was first introduced to GEICO in January 1951, I was blown away by the huge cost advantage the
company enjoyed compared to the expenses borne by the giants of the industry. It was clear to me that GEICO
would succeed because it deserved to succeed. No one likes to buy auto insurance. Almost everyone, though, likes
to drive. The insurance consequently needed is a major expenditure for most families. Savings matter to them – and
only a low-cost operation can deliver these. Indeed, at least 40% of the people reading this letter can save money by
insuring with GEICO. So stop reading and go to geico.com or call 800-368-2734.

10

GEICO’s cost advantage is the factor that has enabled the company to gobble up market share year after
year. (We ended 2014 at 10.8% compared to 2.5% in 1995, when Berkshire acquired control of GEICO.) The
company’s low costs create a moat – an enduring one – that competitors are unable to cross. Our gecko never tires
of telling Americans how GEICO can save them important money. The gecko, I should add, has one particularly
endearing quality – he works without pay. Unlike a human spokesperson, he never gets a swelled head from his
fame nor does he have an agent to constantly remind us how valuable he is. I love the little guy.
************
In addition to our three major insurance operations, we own a group of smaller companies, most of them
plying their trade in odd corners of the insurance world. In aggregate, these companies are a growing operation that
consistently delivers an underwriting profit. Indeed, over the past decade, they have earned $2.95 billion from
underwriting while growing their float from $1.7 billion to $8.6 billion. Charlie and I treasure these companies and
their managers.

Insurance Operations
BH Reinsurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
GEICO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Primary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Underwriting Profit
Yearend Float
(in millions)
2014
2013
2014
2013
$ 606
$1,294
$42,454
$37,231
277
283
19,280
20,013
1,159
1,127
13,569
12,566
626
385
8,618
7,430
$2,668
$3,089
$83,921
$77,240

************
Simply put, insurance is the sale of promises. The “customer” pays money now; the insurer promises to
pay money in the future should certain unwanted events occur.
Sometimes, the promise will not be tested for decades. (Think of life insurance bought by people in their
20s.) Therefore, both the ability and willingness of the insurer to pay, even if economic chaos prevails when
payment time arrives, is all-important.
Berkshire’s promises have no equal, a fact affirmed in recent years by certain of the world’s largest and
most sophisticated P/C insurers, who wished to shed themselves of huge and exceptionally long-lived liabilities.
That is, these insurers wished to “cede” these liabilities – most of them potential losses from asbestos claims – to a
reinsurer. They needed the right one, though: If a reinsurer fails to pay a loss, the original insurer is still on the hook
for it. Choosing a reinsurer, therefore, that down the road proves to be financially strapped or a bad actor threatens
the original insurer with getting huge liabilities right back in its lap.
Last year, our premier position in reinsurance was reaffirmed by our writing a policy carrying a $3 billion
single premium. I believe that the policy’s size has only been exceeded by our 2007 transaction with Lloyd’s, in
which the premium was $7.1 billion.
In fact, I know of only eight P/C policies in history that had a single premium exceeding $1 billion. And,
yes, all eight were written by Berkshire. Certain of these contracts will require us to make substantial payments 50
years or more from now. When major insurers have needed an unquestionable promise that payments of this type
will be made, Berkshire has been the party – the only party – to call.
************
Berkshire’s great managers, premier financial strength and a variety of business models protected by
wide moats amount to something unique in the insurance world. This assemblage of strengths is a huge asset for
Berkshire shareholders that will only get more valuable with time.

11

Regulated, Capital-Intensive Businesses
We have two major operations, BNSF and Berkshire Hathaway Energy (“BHE”), that share important
characteristics distinguishing them from our other businesses. Consequently, we assign them their own section in
this letter and split out their combined financial statistics in our GAAP balance sheet and income statement.
A key characteristic of both companies is their huge investment in very long-lived, regulated assets, with
these partially funded by large amounts of long-term debt that is not guaranteed by Berkshire. Our credit is in fact
not needed because each company has earning power that even under terrible economic conditions will far exceed
its interest requirements. Last year, for example, BNSF’s interest coverage was more than 8:1. (Our definition of
coverage is pre-tax earnings/interest, not EBITDA/interest, a commonly used measure we view as seriously flawed.)
At BHE, meanwhile, two factors ensure the company’s ability to service its debt under all circumstances.
The first is common to all utilities: recession-resistant earnings, which result from these companies offering an
essential service on an exclusive basis. The second is enjoyed by few other utilities: a great diversity of earnings
streams, which shield us from being seriously harmed by any single regulatory body. Recently, we have further
broadened that base through our $3 billion (Canadian) acquisition of AltaLink, an electric transmission system
serving 85% of Alberta’s population. This multitude of profit streams, supplemented by the inherent advantage of
being owned by a strong parent, has enabled BHE and its utility subsidiaries to significantly lower their cost of debt.
This economic fact benefits both us and our customers.
Every day, our two subsidiaries power the American economy in major ways:
•

BNSF carries about 15% (measured by ton-miles) of all inter-city freight, whether it is transported by
truck, rail, water, air, or pipeline. Indeed, we move more ton-miles of goods than anyone else, a fact
establishing BNSF as the most important artery in our economy’s circulatory system.
BNSF, like all railroads, also moves its cargo in an extraordinarily fuel-efficient and environmentally
friendly way, carrying a ton of freight about 500 miles on a single gallon of diesel fuel. Trucks taking on
the same job guzzle about four times as much fuel.

•

BHE’s utilities serve regulated retail customers in eleven states. No utility company stretches further. In
addition, we are a leader in renewables: From a standing start ten years ago, BHE now accounts for 6% of
the country’s wind generation capacity and 7% of its solar generation capacity. Beyond these businesses,