
     Most of the funds generated by GEICO’s core insurance 
operation are made available to Lou for investment.  Lou has the 
rare combination of temperamental and intellectual 
characteristics that produce outstanding long-term investment 
performance.  Operating with below-average risk, he has generated 
returns that have been by far the best in the insurance industry.  
I applaud and appreciate the efforts and talents of these three 
outstanding managers.
Errors in Loss Reserving
Any shareholder in a company with important interests in the 
property/casualty insurance business should have some 
understanding of the weaknesses inherent in the reporting of 
current earnings in that industry.  Phil Graham, when publisher 
of the Washington Post, described the daily newspaper as “a first 
rough draft of history”.  Unfortunately, the financial statements 
of a property/casualty insurer provide, at best, only a first 
rough draft of earnings and financial condition.

     The determination of costs is the main problem.  Most of an 
insurer’s costs result from losses on claims, and many of the 
losses that should be charged against the current year’s revenue 
are exceptionally difficult to estimate.  Sometimes the extent of 
these losses, or even their existence, is not known for decades.

     The loss expense charged in a property/casualty company’s 
current income statement represents: (1) losses that occurred and 
were paid during the year; (2) estimates for losses that occurred 
and were reported to the insurer during the year, but which have 
yet to be settled; (3) estimates of ultimate dollar costs for 
losses that occurred during the year but of which the insurer is 
unaware (termed “IBNR”: incurred but not reported); and (4) the 
net effect of revisions this year of similar estimates for (2) 
and (3) made in past years.

     Such revisions may be long delayed, but eventually any 
estimate of losses that causes the income for year X to be 
misstated must be corrected, whether it is in year X + 1, or     
X + 10.  This, perforce, means that earnings in the year of 
correction also are misstated.  For example, assume a claimant 
was injured by one of our insureds in 1979 and we thought a 
settlement was likely to be made for $10,000.  That year we would 
have charged $10,000 to our earnings statement for the estimated 
cost of the loss and, correspondingly, set up a liability reserve 
on the balance sheet for that amount.  If we settled the claim in 
1984 for $100,000, we would charge earnings with a loss cost of 
$90,000 in 1984, although that cost was truly an expense of 1979.  
And if that piece of business was our only activity in 1979, we 
would have badly misled ourselves as to costs, and you as to 
earnings.

     The necessarily-extensive use of estimates in assembling the 
figures that appear in such deceptively precise form in the 
income statement of property/casualty companies means that some 
error must seep in, no matter how proper the intentions of 
management.  In an attempt to minimize error, most insurers use 
various statistical techniques to adjust the thousands of 
individual loss evaluations (called case reserves) that comprise 
the raw data for estimation of aggregate liabilities.  The extra 
reserves created by these adjustments are variously labeled 
“bulk”, “development”, or “supplemental” reserves.  The goal of 
the adjustments should be a loss-reserve total that has a 50-50 
chance of being proved either slightly too high or slightly too 
low when all losses that occurred prior to the date of the 
financial statement are ultimately paid.

     At Berkshire, we have added what we thought were appropriate 
supplemental reserves but in recent years they have not been 
adequate.  It is important that you understand the magnitude of 
the errors that have been involved in our reserving.  You can 
thus see for yourselves just how imprecise the process is, and 
also judge whether we may have some systemic bias that should 
make you wary of our current and future figures.

     The following table shows the results from insurance 
underwriting as we have reported them to you in recent years, and 
also gives you calculations a year later on an “if-we-knew-then-
what-we think-we-know-now” basis.  I say “what we think we know 
now” because the adjusted figures still include a great many 
estimates for losses that occurred in the earlier years.  
However, many claims from the earlier years have been settled so 
that our one-year-later estimate contains less guess work than 
our earlier estimate:
Underwriting Results       Corrected Figures
                    as Reported            After One Year’s
     Year              to You                 Experience
     ----       --------------------       -----------------
1980           $  6,738,000             $ 14,887,000
     1981              1,478,000               (1,118,000)
     1982            (21,462,000)             (25,066,000)
     1983            (33,192,000)             (50,974,000)
     1984            (45,413,000)                  ?
Our structured settlement and loss-reserve assumption 
     businesses are not included in this table.  Important 
     additional information on loss reserve experience appears 
     on pages 43-45.
To help you understand this table, here is an explanation of 
the most recent figures: 1984’s reported pre-tax underwriting 
loss of $45.4 million consists of $27.6 million we estimate that 
we lost on 1984’s business, plus the increased loss of $17.8 
million reflected in the corrected figure for 1983.

     As you can see from reviewing the table, my errors in 
reporting to you have been substantial and recently have always 
presented a better underwriting picture than was truly the case.  
This is a source of particular chagrin to me because: (1) I like 
for you to be able to count on what I say; (2) our insurance 
managers and I undoubtedly acted with less urgency than we would 
have had we understood the full extent of our losses; and (3) we 
paid income taxes calculated on overstated earnings and thereby 
gave the government money that we didn’t need to.  (These 
overpayments eventually correct themselves, but the delay is long 
and we don’t receive interest on the amounts we overpaid.)

     Because our business is weighted toward casualty and 
reinsurance lines, we have more problems in estimating loss costs 
than companies that specialize in property insurance. (When a 
building that you have insured burns down, you get a much faster 
fix on your costs than you do when an employer you have insured 
finds out that one of his retirees has contracted a disease 
attributable to work he did decades earlier.) But I still find 
our errors embarrassing.  In our direct business, we have far 
underestimated the mushrooming tendency of juries and courts to 
make the “deep pocket” pay, regardless of the factual situation 
and the past precedents for establishment of liability.  We also 
have underestimated the contagious effect that publicity 
regarding giant awards has on juries.  In the reinsurance area, 
where we have had our worst experience in under reserving, our 
customer insurance companies have made the same mistakes.  Since 
we set reserves based on information they supply us, their 
mistakes have become our mistakes.

     I heard a story recently that is applicable to our insurance 
accounting problems: a man was traveling abroad when he received 
a call from his sister informing him that their father had died 
unexpectedly.  It was physically impossible for the brother to 
get back home for the funeral, but he told his sister to take 
care of the funeral arrangements and to send the bill to him.  
After returning home he received a bill for several thousand 
dollars, which he promptly paid.  The following month another 
bill came along for $15, and he paid that too.  Another month 
followed, with a similar bill.  When, in the next month, a third 
bill for $15 was presented, he called his sister to ask what was 
going on.  “Oh”, she said.  “I forgot to tell you.  We buried Dad 
in a rented suit.”

     If you’ve been in the insurance business in recent years - 
particularly the reinsurance business - this story hurts.  We 
have tried to include all of our “rented suit” liabilities in our 
current financial statement, but our record of past error should 
make us humble, and you suspicious.  I will continue to report to 
you the errors, plus or minus, that surface each year.

     Not all reserving errors in the industry have been of the 
innocent-but-dumb variety.  With underwriting results as bad as 
they have been in recent years - and with managements having as 
much discretion as they do in the presentation of financial 
statements - some unattractive aspects of human nature have 
manifested themselves.  Companies that would be out of business 
if they realistically appraised their loss costs have, in some 
cases, simply preferred to take an extraordinarily optimistic 
view about these yet-to-be-paid sums.  Others have engaged in 
various transactions to hide true current loss costs.

     Both of these approaches can “work” for a considerable time: 
external auditors cannot effectively police the financial 
statements of property/casualty insurers.  If liabilities of an 
insurer, correctly stated, would exceed assets, it falls to the 
insurer to volunteer this morbid information.  In other words, 
the corpse is supposed to file the death certificate.  Under this 
“honor system” of mortality, the corpse sometimes gives itself 
the benefit of the doubt.

     In most businesses, of course, insolvent companies run out 
of cash.  Insurance is different: you can be broke but flush.  