---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2007
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2007ar/2007ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 336 - 1547
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Our gain in net worth during 2007 was $12.3 billion, which increased the per-share book value of
both our Class A and Class B stock by 11%. Over the last 43 years (that is, since present management took
over) book value has grown from $19 to $78,008, a rate of 21.1% compounded annually.*
Overall, our 76 operating businesses did well last year. The few that had problems were primarily
those linked to housing, among them our brick, carpet and real estate brokerage operations. Their setbacks
are minor and temporary. Our competitive position in these businesses remains strong, and we have firstclass CEOs who run them right, in good times or bad.
Some major financial institutions have, however, experienced staggering problems because they
engaged in the “weakened lending practices” I described in last year’s letter. John Stumpf, CEO of Wells
Fargo, aptly dissected the recent behavior of many lenders: “It is interesting that the industry has invented
new ways to lose money when the old ways seemed to work just fine.”
You may recall a 2003 Silicon Valley bumper sticker that implored, “Please, God, Just One More
Bubble.” Unfortunately, this wish was promptly granted, as just about all Americans came to believe that
house prices would forever rise. That conviction made a borrower’s income and cash equity seem
unimportant to lenders, who shoveled out money, confident that HPA – house price appreciation – would
cure all problems. Today, our country is experiencing widespread pain because of that erroneous belief.
As house prices fall, a huge amount of financial folly is being exposed. You only learn who has been
swimming naked when the tide goes out – and what we are witnessing at some of our largest financial
institutions is an ugly sight.
Turning to happier thoughts, we can report that Berkshire’s newest acquisitions of size, TTI and
Iscar, led by their CEOs, Paul Andrews and Jacob Harpaz respectively, performed magnificently in 2007.
Iscar is as impressive a manufacturing operation as I’ve seen, a view I reported last year and that was
confirmed by a visit I made in the fall to its extraordinary plant in Korea.
Finally, our insurance business – the cornerstone of Berkshire – had an excellent year. Part of the
reason is that we have the best collection of insurance managers in the business – more about them later.
But we also were very lucky in 2007, the second year in a row free of major insured catastrophes.
That party is over. It’s a certainty that insurance-industry profit margins, including ours, will fall
significantly in 2008. Prices are down, and exposures inexorably rise. Even if the U.S. has its third
consecutive catastrophe-light year, industry profit margins will probably shrink by four percentage points
or so. If the winds roar or the earth trembles, results could be far worse. So be prepared for lower
insurance earnings during the next few years.
Yardsticks
Berkshire has two major areas of value. The first is our investments: stocks, bonds and cash
equivalents. At yearend these totaled $141 billion (not counting those in our finance or utility operations,
which we assign to our second bucket of value).

*All per-share figures used in this report apply to Berkshire’s A shares. Figures for the B shares
are 1/30th of those shown for the A.

3

Insurance float – money we temporarily hold in our insurance operations that does not belong to
us – funds $59 billion of our investments. This float is “free” as long as insurance underwriting breaks
even, meaning that the premiums we receive equal the losses and expenses we incur. Of course, insurance
underwriting is volatile, swinging erratically between profits and losses. Over our entire history, however,
we’ve been profitable, and I expect we will average breakeven results or better in the future. If we do that,
our investments can be viewed as an unencumbered source of value for Berkshire shareholders.
Berkshire’s second component of value is earnings that come from sources other than investments
and insurance. These earnings are delivered by our 66 non-insurance companies, itemized on page 76. In
our early years, we focused on the investment side. During the past two decades, however, we have put
ever more emphasis on the development of earnings from non-insurance businesses.
The following tables illustrate this shift. In the first we tabulate per-share investments at 14-year
intervals. We exclude those applicable to minority interests.

Year
1965
1979
1993
2007

Per-Share
Investments
4
577
13,961
90,343

Years

Compounded Annual
Gain in Per-Share Investments

1965-1979
1979-1993
1993-2007

42.8%
25.6%
14.3%

$

For the entire 42 years, our compounded annual gain in per-share investments was 27.1%. But the
trend has been downward as we increasingly used our available funds to buy operating businesses.
Here’s the record on how earnings of our non-insurance businesses have grown, again on a pershare basis and after applicable minority interests.

Year
1965
1979
1993
2007

Per Share
Pre-Tax Earnings
4
18
212
4,093

Years

Compounded Annual Gain in PerShare Pre-Tax Earnings

1965-1979
1979-1993
1993-2007

11.1%
19.1%
23.5%

$

For the entire period, the compounded annual gain was 17.8%, with gains accelerating as our
focus shifted.
Though these tables may help you gain historical perspective and be useful in valuation, they are
completely misleading in predicting future possibilities. Berkshire’s past record can’t be duplicated or
even approached. Our base of assets and earnings is now far too large for us to make outsized gains in the
future.
Charlie Munger, my partner at Berkshire, and I will continue to measure our progress by the two
yardsticks I have just described and will regularly update you on the results. Though we can’t come close
to duplicating the past, we will do our best to make sure the future is not disappointing.
************
In our efforts, we will be aided enormously by the managers who have joined Berkshire. This is
an unusual group in several ways. First, most of them have no financial need to work. Many sold us their
businesses for large sums and run them because they love doing so, not because they need the money.
Naturally they wish to be paid fairly, but money alone is not the reason they work hard and productively.

4

A second, somewhat related, point about these managers is that they have exactly the job they
want for the rest of their working years. At almost any other company, key managers below the top aspire
to keep climbing the pyramid. For them, the subsidiary or division they manage today is a way station – or
so they hope. Indeed, if they are in their present positions five years from now, they may well feel like
failures.
Conversely, our CEOs’ scorecards for success are not whether they obtain my job but instead are
the long-term performances of their businesses. Their decisions flow from a here-today, here-forever
mindset. I think our rare and hard-to-replicate managerial structure gives Berkshire a real advantage.
Acquisitions
Though our managers may be the best, we will need large and sensible acquisitions to get the
growth in operating earnings we wish. Here, we made little progress in 2007 until very late in the year.
Then, on Christmas day, Charlie and I finally earned our paychecks by contracting for the largest cash
purchase in Berkshire’s history.
The seeds of this transaction were planted in 1954. That fall, only three months into a new job, I
was sent by my employers, Ben Graham and Jerry Newman, to a shareholders’ meeting of Rockwood
Chocolate in Brooklyn. A young fellow had recently taken control of this company, a manufacturer of
assorted cocoa-based items. He had then initiated a one-of-a-kind tender, offering 80 pounds of cocoa
beans for each share of Rockwood stock. I described this transaction in a section of the 1988 annual report
that explained arbitrage. I also told you that Jay Pritzker – the young fellow mentioned above – was the
business genius behind this tax-efficient idea, the possibilities for which had escaped all the other experts
who had thought about buying Rockwood, including my bosses, Ben and Jerry.
At the meeting, Jay was friendly and gave me an education on the 1954 tax code. I came away
very impressed. Thereafter, I avidly followed Jay’s business dealings, which were many and brilliant. His
valued partner was his brother, Bob, who for nearly 50 years ran Marmon Group, the home for most of the
Pritzker businesses.
Jay died in 1999, and Bob retired early in 2002. Around then, the Pritzker family decided to
gradually sell or reorganize certain of its holdings, including Marmon, a company operating 125
businesses, managed through nine sectors. Marmon’s largest operation is Union Tank Car, which together
with a Canadian counterpart owns 94,000 rail cars that are leased to various shippers. The original cost of
this fleet is $5.1 billion. All told, Marmon has $7 billion in sales and about 20,000 employees.