Fetzer is a prototype - understandable, large, well-managed, a 
good earner.

     The company has sales of about $700 million derived from 17 
businesses, many leaders in their fields.  Return on invested 
capital is good to excellent for most of these businesses.  Some 
well-known products are Kirby home-care systems, Campbell 
Hausfeld air compressors, and Wayne burners and water pumps.

     World Book, Inc. - accounting for about 40% of Scott 
Fetzer’s sales and a bit more of its income - is by far the 
company’s largest operation.  It also is by far the leader in its 
industry, selling more than twice as many encyclopedia sets 
annually as its nearest competitor.  In fact, it sells more sets 
in the U.S. than its four biggest competitors combined.

     Charlie and I have a particular interest in the World Book 
operation because we regard its encyclopedia as something 
special.  I’ve been a fan (and user) for 25 years, and now have 
grandchildren consulting the sets just as my children did.  World 
Book is regularly rated the most useful encyclopedia by teachers, 
librarians and consumer buying guides.  Yet it sells for less 
than any of its major competitors. Childcraft, another World 
Book, Inc. product, offers similar value.  This combination of 
exceptional products and modest prices at World Book, Inc. helped 
make us willing to pay the price demanded for Scott Fetzer, 
despite declining results for many companies in the direct-
selling industry.

     An equal attraction at Scott Fetzer is Ralph Schey, its CEO 
for nine years.  When Ralph took charge, the company had 31 
businesses, the result of an acquisition spree in the 1960s.  He 
disposed of many that did not fit or had limited profit 
potential, but his focus on rationalizing the original potpourri 
was not so intense that he passed by World Book when it became 
available for purchase in 1978.  Ralph’s operating and capital-
allocation record is superb, and we are delighted to be 
associated with him.

     The history of the Scott Fetzer acquisition is interesting, 
marked by some zigs and zags before we became involved.  The 
company had been an announced candidate for purchase since early 
1984.  A major investment banking firm spent many months 
canvassing scores of prospects, evoking interest from several.  
Finally, in mid-1985 a plan of sale, featuring heavy 
participation by an ESOP (Employee Stock Ownership Plan), was 
approved by shareholders.  However, as difficulty in closing 
followed, the plan was scuttled.

     I had followed this corporate odyssey through the 
newspapers.  On October 10, well after the ESOP deal had fallen 
through, I wrote a short letter to Ralph, whom I did not know.  I 
said we admired the company’s record and asked if he might like 
to talk.  Charlie and I met Ralph for dinner in Chicago on 
October 22 and signed an acquisition contract the following week.

     The Scott Fetzer acquisition, plus major growth in our 
insurance business, should push revenues above $2 billion in 
1986, more than double those of 1985.
Miscellaneous
The Scott Fetzer purchase illustrates our somewhat haphazard 
approach to acquisitions.  We have no master strategy, no 
corporate planners delivering us insights about socioeconomic 
trends, and no staff to investigate a multitude of ideas 
presented by promoters and intermediaries.  Instead, we simply 
hope that something sensible comes along - and, when it does, we 
act.

     To give fate a helping hand, we again repeat our regular 
“business wanted” ad.  The only change from last year’s copy is 
in (1): because we continue to want any acquisition we make to 
have a measurable impact on Berkshire’s financial results, we 
have raised our minimum profit requirement.

     Here’s what we’re looking for:
     (1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
         earnings),
     (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
         projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
         “turn-around” situations),
     (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
         employing little or no debt,
     (4) management in place (we can’t supply it),
     (5) simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we 
         won’t understand it),
     (6) an offering price (we don’t want to waste our time 
         or that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
         about a transaction when price is unknown).
 
     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we’re interested.  We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuance of stock when we 
receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  Indeed, 
following recent advances in the price of Berkshire stock, 
transactions involving stock issuance may be quite feasible.  We 
invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people 
with whom we have done business in the past.  For the right 
business - and the right people - we can provide a good home.

     On the other hand, we frequently get approached about 
acquisitions that don’t come close to meeting our tests: new 
ventures, turnarounds, auction-like sales, and the ever-popular 
(among brokers) “I’m-sure-something-will-work-out-if-you-people-
get-to-know-each-other”.  None of these attracts us in the least.

                           *  *  *
 
     Besides being interested in the purchases of entire 
businesses as described above, we are also interested in the 
negotiated purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of 
stock, as in our Cap Cities purchase.  Such purchases appeal to 
us only when we are very comfortable with both the economics of 
the business and the ability and integrity of the people running 
the operation.  We prefer large transactions: in the unusual case 
we might do something as small as $50 million (or even smaller), 
but our preference is for commitments many times that size.

                           *  *  *

     About 96.8% of all eligible shares participated in 
Berkshire’s 1985 shareholder-designated contributions program.  
Total contributions made through the program were $4 million, and 
1,724 charities were recipients.  We conducted a plebiscite last 
year in order to get your views about this program, as well as 
about our dividend policy.  (Recognizing that it’s possible to 
influence the answers to a question by the framing of it, we 
attempted to make the wording of ours as neutral as possible.) We 
present the ballot and the results in the Appendix on page 69. I 
think it’s fair to summarize your response as highly supportive 
of present policies and your group preference - allowing for the 
tendency of people to vote for the status quo - to be for 
increasing the annual charitable commitment as our asset values 
build.

     We urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
pages 66 and 67.  If you wish to participate in future programs, 
we strongly urge that you immediately make sure that your shares 
are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in “street” 
name or nominee name.  Shares not so registered on September 30, 
1986 will be ineligible for the 1986 program.
 
                           *  *  *

     Five years ago we were required by the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1969 to dispose of our holdings in The Illinois National 
Bank and Trust Company of Rockford, Illinois.  Our method of 
doing so was unusual: we announced an exchange ratio between 
stock of Rockford Bancorp Inc. (the Illinois National’s holding 
company) and stock of Berkshire, and then let each of our 
shareholders - except me - make the decision as to whether to 
exchange all, part, or none of his Berkshire shares for Rockford 
shares.  I took the Rockford stock that was left over and thus my 
own holding in Rockford was determined by your decisions.  At the 
time I said, “This technique embodies the world’s oldest and most 
elementary system of fairly dividing an object.  Just as when you 
were a child and one person cut the cake and the other got first 
choice, I have tried to cut the company fairly, but you get first 
choice as to which piece you want.”

     Last fall Illinois National was sold.  When Rockford’s 
liquidation is completed, its shareholders will have received 
per-share proceeds about equal to Berkshire’s per-share intrinsic 
value at the time of the bank’s sale.  I’m pleased that this 
five-year result indicates that the division of the cake was 
reasonably equitable.
 
     Last year I put in a plug for our annual meeting, and you 
took me up on the invitation.  Over 250 of our more than 3,000 
registered shareholders showed up.  Those attending behaved just 
as those present in previous years, asking the sort of questions 
you would expect from intelligent and interested owners.  You can 
attend a great many annual meetings without running into a crowd 
like ours. (Lester Maddox, when Governor of Georgia, was 
criticized regarding the state’s abysmal prison system.  “The 
solution”, he said, “is simple.  All we need is a better class of 
prisoners.” Upgrading annual meetings works the same way.)

     I hope you come to this year’s meeting, which will be held 
on May 20 in Omaha.  There will be only one change: after 48 
years of allegiance to another soft drink, your Chairman, in an 
unprecedented display of behavioral flexibility, has converted to 