They'll be guarding the safe all night." I now was ready to 
rejoin the party. But Ike leaned closer: "And besides, Warren," 
he confided, "the jewels aren't in the safe."

     How can we miss with a fellow like that - particularly when 
he comes equipped with a talented and energetic family, Alan, 
Marvin Cohn, and Don Yale.
o
At See's Candies we had an 8% increase in pounds sold, even 
though 1988 was itself a record year. Included in the 1989 
performance were excellent same-store poundage gains, our first 
in many years.

     Advertising played an important role in this outstanding 
performance. We increased total advertising expenditures from $4 
million to $5 million and also got copy from our agency, Hal 
Riney & Partners, Inc., that was 100% on the money in conveying 
the qualities that make See's special.

     In our media businesses, such as the Buffalo News, we sell 
advertising. In other businesses, such as See's, we are buyers. 
When we buy, we practice exactly what we preach when we sell. At 
See's, we more than tripled our expenditures on newspaper 
advertising last year, to the highest percentage of sales that I 
can remember. The payoff was terrific, and we thank both Hal 
Riney and the power of well-directed newspaper advertising for 
this result.

     See's splendid performances have become routine. But there 
is nothing routine about the management of Chuck Huggins: His 
daily involvement with all aspects of production and sales 
imparts a quality-and-service message to the thousands of 
employees we need to produce and distribute over 27 million 
pounds of candy annually. In a company with 225 shops and a 
massive mail order and phone business, it is no small trick to 
run things so that virtually every customer leaves happy. Chuck 
makes it look easy.
o
The Nebraska Furniture Mart had record sales and excellent 
earnings in 1989, but there was one sad note. Mrs. B - Rose 
Blumkin, who started the company 52 years ago with $500 - quit in 
May, after disagreeing with other members of the Blumkin 
family/management about the remodeling and operation of the 
carpet department.

     Mrs. B probably has made more smart business decisions than 
any living American, but in this particular case I believe the 
other members of the family were entirely correct: Over the past 
three years, while the store's other departments increased sales 
by 24%, carpet sales declined by 17% (but not because of any lack 
of sales ability by Mrs. B, who has always personally sold far 
more merchandise than any other salesperson in the store).

     You will be pleased to know that Mrs. B continues to make 
Horatio Alger's heroes look like victims of tired blood. At age 
96 she has started a new business selling - what else? - carpet 
and furniture. And as always, she works seven days a week.

     At the Mart Louie, Ron, and Irv Blumkin continue to propel 
what is by far the largest and most successful home furnishings 
store in the country. They are outstanding merchants, outstanding 
managers, and a joy to be associated with. One reading on their 
acumen: In the fourth quarter of 1989, the carpet department 
registered a 75.3% consumer share in the Omaha market, up from 
67.7% a year earlier and over six times that of its nearest 
competitor.

     NFM and Borsheim's follow precisely the same formula for 
success: (1) unparalleled depth and breadth of merchandise at one 
location; (2) the lowest operating costs in the business; (3) the 
shrewdest of buying, made possible in part by the huge volumes 
purchased; (4) gross margins, and therefore prices, far below 
competitors'; and (5) friendly personalized service with family 
members on hand at all times.

     Another plug for newspapers: NFM increased its linage in the 
local paper by over 20% in 1989 - off a record 1988 - and remains 
the paper's largest ROP advertiser by far. (ROP advertising is 
the kind printed in the paper, as opposed to that in preprinted 
inserts.) To my knowledge, Omaha is the only city in which a home 
furnishings store is the advertising leader. Many retailers cut 
space purchases in 1989; our experience at See's and NFM would 
indicate they made a major mistake.
o
The Buffalo News continued to star in 1989 in three 
important ways: First, among major metropolitan papers, both 
daily and Sunday, the News is number one in household penetration 
- the percentage of local households that purchase it each day. 
Second, in "news hole" - the portion of the paper devoted to news 
- the paper stood at 50.1% in 1989 vs. 49.5% in 1988, a level 
again making it more news-rich than any comparable American 
paper. Third, in a year that saw profits slip at many major 
papers, the News set its seventh consecutive profit record.

     To some extent, these three factors are related, though 
obviously a high-percentage news hole, by itself, reduces profits 
significantly. A large and intelligently-utilized news hole, 
however, attracts a wide spectrum of readers and thereby boosts 
penetration. High penetration, in turn, makes a newspaper 
particularly valuable to retailers since it allows them to talk 
to the entire community through a single "megaphone." A low-
penetration paper is a far less compelling purchase for many 
advertisers and will eventually suffer in both ad rates and 
profits.

     It should be emphasized that our excellent penetration is 
neither an accident nor automatic. The population of Erie County, 
home territory of the News, has been falling - from 1,113,000 in 
1970 to 1,015,000 in 1980 to an estimated 966,000 in 1988. 
Circulation figures tell a different story. In 1975, shortly 
before we started our Sunday edition, the Courier-Express, a 
long-established Buffalo paper, was selling 207,500 Sunday copies 
in Erie County. Last year - with population at least 5% lower - 
the News sold an average of 292,700 copies. I believe that in no 
other major Sunday market has there been anything close to that 
increase in penetration.

     When this kind of gain is made - and when a paper attains an 
unequaled degree of acceptance in its home town - someone is 
doing something right. In this case major credit clearly belongs 
to Murray Light, our long-time editor who daily creates an 
informative, useful, and interesting product. Credit should go 
also to the Circulation and Production Departments: A paper that 
is frequently late, because of production problems or 
distribution weaknesses, will lose customers, no matter how 
strong its editorial content.

     Stan Lipsey, publisher of the News, has produced profits 
fully up to the strength of our product. I believe Stan's 
managerial skills deliver at least five extra percentage points 
in profit margin compared to the earnings that would be achieved 
by an average manager given the same circumstances. That is an 
amazing performance, and one that could only be produced by a 
talented manager who knows - and cares - about every nut and bolt 
of the business. 

     Stan's knowledge and talents, it should be emphasized, 
extend to the editorial product. His early years in the business 
were spent on the news side and he played a key role in 
developing and editing a series of stories that in 1972 won a 
Pulitzer Prize for the Sun Newspaper of Omaha. Stan and I have 
worked together for over 20 years, through some bad times as well 
as good, and I could not ask for a better partner.
o
At Fechheimer, the Heldman clan - Bob, George, Gary, 
Roger and Fred - continue their extraordinary performance. Profits 
in 1989 were down somewhat because of problems the business 
experienced in integrating a major 1988 acquisition. These 
problems will be ironed out in time. Meanwhile, return on invested 
capital at Fechheimer remains splendid.

     Like all of our managers, the Heldmans have an exceptional 
command of the details of their business. At last year's annual 
meeting I mentioned that when a prisoner enters San Quentin, Bob 
and George probably know his shirt size. That's only a slight 
exaggeration: No matter what area of the country is being 
discussed, they know exactly what is going on with major 
customers and with the competition.

     Though we purchased Fechheimer four years ago, Charlie and I 
have never visited any of its plants or the home office in 
Cincinnati. We're much like the lonesome Maytag repairman: The 
Heldman managerial product is so good that a service call is 
never needed.
o
Ralph Schey continues to do a superb job in managing 
our largest group - World Book, Kirby, and the Scott Fetzer 
Manufacturing Companies. Aggregate earnings of these businesses 
have increased every year since our purchase and returns on 
invested capital continue to be exceptional. Ralph is running an 
enterprise large enough, were it standing alone, to be on the 
Fortune 500. And he's running it in a fashion that would put him 
high in the top decile, measured by return on equity.

     For some years, World Book has operated out of a single 
location in Chicago's Merchandise Mart. Anticipating the imminent 
expiration of its lease, the business is now decentralizing into 