did $40.2 million of business, breaking its previous record by 12%. It also set a single day record of $8.2 million on
Saturday, selling nearly $1 million of mattresses alone.
To obtain the Berkshire discount at NFM, you must make your purchases between Tuesday, April 29th and
Monday, May 5th inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period’s special pricing will even apply
to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but
which, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their cooperation.
NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Sunday. On Saturday this
year, from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m., NFM is having a picnic to which you are all invited.
At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholder-only events. The first will be a cocktail reception from
6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Friday, May 2nd. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, May 4th, from 9 a.m. to 4
p.m. On Saturday, we will be open until 6 p.m. In recent years, our three-day volume has far exceeded sales in all
of December, normally a jeweler’s best month.

22

About 1:15 p.m. on Sunday, I will begin clerking at Borsheims. Ask for my “Crazy Warren” quote on the
item of your choice. As I get older, my pricing gets ever more ridiculous. Come take advantage of me.
We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, therefore,
shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 28th through Saturday, May 10th. During that period,
please identify yourself as a shareholder by presenting your meeting credentials or a brokerage statement that
shows you are a Berkshire holder.
On Sunday, in the mall outside of Borsheims, a blindfolded Patrick Wolff, twice U.S. chess champion,
will take on all comers – who will have their eyes wide open – in groups of six. Nearby, Norman Beck, a
remarkable magician from Dallas, will bewilder onlookers. Additionally, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon
Osberg, two of the world’s top bridge experts, available to play bridge with our shareholders on Sunday afternoon.
Don’t play them for money.
My friend, Ariel Hsing, will be in the mall as well on Sunday, taking on challengers at table tennis. Last
year, she made Americans – and especially me – proud with her performance at the Olympics.
I met Ariel when she was nine and even then I was unable to score a point against her. Now, she’s a
freshman at Princeton and the U.S. Women’s Champion. If you don’t mind embarrassing yourself, test your skills
against her, beginning at 1 p.m. Bill Gates and I will lead off and try to soften her up.
Gorat’s and Piccolo’s will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 4th. Both
will be serving until 10 p.m., with Gorat’s opening at 1 p.m. and Piccolo’s opening at 4 p.m. These restaurants are
my favorites, and I will eat at both of them on Sunday evening. Remember: To make a reservation at Gorat’s, call
402-551-3733 on April 1st (but not before) and for Piccolo’s call 402-342-9038. At Piccolo’s order a giant root beer
float for dessert. Only sissies get the small one.
We will again have the same three financial journalists lead the question-and-answer period at the
meeting, asking Charlie and me questions that shareholders have submitted to them by e-mail. The journalists and
their e-mail addresses are: Carol Loomis, of Fortune, who may be e-mailed at cloomis@fortunemail.com; Becky
Quick, of CNBC, at BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com; and Andrew Ross Sorkin, of The New York Times, at
arsorkin@nytimes.com.
From the questions submitted, each journalist will choose the six he or she decides are the most interesting
and important. The journalists have told me your question has the best chance of being selected if you keep it
concise, avoid sending it in at the last moment, make it Berkshire-related and include no more than two questions in
any e-mail you send them. (In your e-mail, let the journalist know if you would like your name mentioned if your
question is selected.)
We will also have a panel of three analysts who follow Berkshire. This year the insurance specialist will
be Jay Gelb of Barclays. Questions that deal with our non-insurance operations will come from Jonathan Brandt of
Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb.
And we will again have a credentialed bear on Berkshire. We would like to hear from applicants who are
short Berkshire (please include evidence of your position). The three analysts will bring their own Berkshirespecific questions and alternate with the journalists and the audience in asking them.
Charlie and I believe that all shareholders should have access to new Berkshire information
simultaneously and should also have adequate time to analyze it. That’s why we try to issue financial information
late on Fridays or early on Saturdays and why our annual meeting is held on Saturdays. We do not talk one-on-one
to large institutional investors or analysts, but rather treat all shareholders the same. Our hope is that the journalists
and analysts will ask questions that further educate our owners about their investment.

23

Neither Charlie nor I will get so much as a clue about the questions to be asked. We know the journalists
and analysts will come up with some tough ones, and that’s the way we like it. All told, we expect at least
54 questions, which will allow for six from each analyst and journalist and 18 from the audience. If there is some
extra time, we will take more from the audience. Audience questioners will be determined by drawings that will
take place at 8:15 a.m. at each of the 15 microphones located in the arena and main overflow room.
************
For good reason, I regularly extol the accomplishments of our operating managers. They are truly AllStars, who run their businesses as if they were the only asset owned by their families. I believe the mindset of our
managers to be as shareholder-oriented as can be found in the universe of large publicly-owned companies. Most
have no financial need to work; the joy of hitting business “home runs” means as much to them as their paycheck.
Equally important, however, are the 24 men and women who work with me at our corporate office. This
group efficiently deals with a multitude of SEC and other regulatory requirements, files a 23,000-page Federal
income tax return as well as state and foreign returns, responds to countless shareholder and media inquiries, gets
out the annual report, prepares for the country’s largest annual meeting, coordinates the Board’s activities – and the
list goes on and on.
They handle all of these business tasks cheerfully and with unbelievable efficiency, making my life easy
and pleasant. Their efforts go beyond activities strictly related to Berkshire: Last year they dealt with the 40
universities (selected from 200 applicants) who sent students to Omaha for a Q&A day with me. They also handle
all kinds of requests that I receive, arrange my travel, and even get me hamburgers and French fries (smothered in
ketchup, of course) for lunch. No CEO has it better; I truly do feel like tap dancing to work every day.
In closing, I think it’s become appropriate to ignore our “no pictures” policy and let you view our
remarkable home-office crew. Below is a photo from our Christmas lunch. Two people couldn’t make it; otherwise
you are looking at all of those who staff Berkshire’s headquarters. They are truly miracle-workers.
Next year’s letter will review our 50 years at Berkshire and speculate a bit about the next 50. In the
meantime, come to Omaha on May 3rd and enjoy our Woodstock for Capitalists.
February 28, 2014
