around the country. Stop by for a quote. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a shareholder discount
(usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 44 of the 51 jurisdictions in which we operate. (One supplemental
point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another discount, such as that available to certain groups.)
Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out our price. We can save many of you real money. Spend
the savings on our other products.

27

Be sure to visit the Bookworm. It will carry about 35 books and DVDs, among them a couple of new titles.
Andy Kilpatrick will introduce (and be glad to sign) the latest edition of his all-encompassing coverage of
Berkshire. It’s 1,304 pages and weighs 9.8 pounds. (My blurb for the book: “Ridiculously skimpy.”) Check out
Peter Bevelin’s new book as well. Peter has long been a keen observer of Berkshire.
We will also have a new, 20-page-longer edition of Berkshire’s 50-year commemorative book that at last
year’s meeting sold 12,000 copies. Since then, Carrie and I have uncovered additional material that we find
fascinating, such as some very personal letters sent by Grover Cleveland to Edward Butler, his friend and the thenpublisher of The Buffalo News. Nothing from the original edition has been changed or eliminated, and the price
remains $20. Charlie and I will jointly sign 100 copies that will be randomly placed among the 5,000 available for
sale at the meeting.
My friend, Phil Beuth, has written Limping on Water, an autobiography that chronicles his life at Capital
Cities Communications and tells you a lot about its leaders, Tom Murphy and Dan Burke. These two were the best
managerial duo – both in what they accomplished and how they did it – that Charlie and I ever witnessed. Much of
what you become in life depends on whom you choose to admire and copy. Start with Tom Murphy, and you’ll
never need a second exemplar.
Finally, Jeremy Miller has written Warren Buffett’s Ground Rules, a book that will debut at the annual
meeting. Mr. Miller has done a superb job of researching and dissecting the operation of Buffett Partnership Ltd.
and of explaining how Berkshire’s culture has evolved from its BPL origin. If you are fascinated by investment
theory and practice, you will enjoy this book.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to both the meeting and other events. Airlines have sometimes jacked up
prices for the Berkshire weekend. If you are coming from far away, compare the cost of flying to Kansas City vs.
Omaha. The drive between the two cities is about 2 1⁄ 2 hours, and it may be that Kansas City can save you
significant money, particularly if you had planned to rent a car in Omaha. The savings for a couple could run to
$1,000 or more. Spend that money with us.
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we will
again be having “Berkshire Weekend” discount pricing. Last year in the week encompassing the meeting, the store
did a record $44,239,493 of business. If you repeat that figure to a retailer, he is not going to believe you. (An
average week for NFM’s Omaha store – the highest-volume home furnishings store in the United States except for
our new Dallas store – is about $9 million.)
To obtain the Berkshire discount at NFM, you must make your purchases between Tuesday, April 26th and
Monday, May 2nd inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period’s special pricing will even apply to
the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but which, in
the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their cooperation. During
“Berkshire Weekend” NFM will be open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. on
Saturday and 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Sunday. From 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturday, NFM is hosting a picnic to which
you are all invited.
At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholder-only events. The first will be a cocktail reception from 6
p.m. to 9 p.m. on Friday, April 29th. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, May 1st, from 9 a.m. to 4
p.m. On Saturday, we will remain open until 6 p.m. During last year’s Friday-Sunday stretch, the store wrote a sales
ticket every 15 seconds that it was open.

28

We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, therefore,
shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 25th through Saturday, May 7th. During that period, please
identify yourself as a shareholder either by presenting your meeting credential or a brokerage statement showing
you own our stock.
On Sunday, in the mall outside of Borsheims, Norman Beck, a remarkable magician from Dallas, will
bewilder onlookers. On the upper level, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon Osberg, two of the world’s top
bridge experts, available to play bridge with our shareholders on Sunday afternoon. I will join them and hope to
have Ajit and Charlie there also.
My friend, Ariel Hsing, will be in the mall as well on Sunday, taking on challengers at table tennis. I met
Ariel when she was nine and even then I was unable to score a point against her. Now, she’s a junior at Princeton,
having already represented the United States in the 2012 Olympics. If you don’t mind embarrassing yourself, test
your skills against her, beginning at 1 p.m. Bill Gates and I will lead off and try to soften her up.
Gorat’s will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 1st, serving from 1 p.m.
until 10 p.m. To make a reservation at Gorat’s, call 402-551-3733 on April 1st (but not before). As for my other
favorite restaurant, Piccolo’s, I’m sad to report it closed.
We will again have the same three financial journalists lead the question-and-answer period at the meeting,
asking Charlie and me questions that shareholders have submitted to them by e-mail. The journalists and their email addresses are: Carol Loomis, the preeminent business journalist of her time, who may be e-mailed at
loomisbrk@gmail.com; Becky Quick, of CNBC, at BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com; and Andrew Ross Sorkin, of
The New York Times, at arsorkin@nytimes.com.
From the questions submitted, each journalist will choose the six he or she decides are the most interesting
and important. The journalists have told me your question has the best chance of being selected if you keep it
concise, avoid sending it in at the last moment, make it Berkshire-related and include no more than two questions in
any e-mail you send them. (In your e-mail, let the journalist know if you would like your name mentioned if your
question is asked.)
An accompanying set of questions will be asked by three analysts who follow Berkshire. This year the
insurance specialist will be Cliff Gallant of Nomura Securities. Questions that deal with our non-insurance
operations will come from Jonathan Brandt of Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb and Gregg Warren of Morningstar. Our
hope is that the analysts and journalists will ask questions that add to our owners’ understanding and knowledge of
their investment.
Neither Charlie nor I will get so much as a clue about the questions headed our way. Some will be tough,
for sure, and that’s the way we like it. Multi-part questions aren’t allowed; we want to give as many questioners as
possible a shot at us.
All told we expect at least 54 questions, which will allow for six from each analyst and journalist and for
18 from the audience. (Last year we had 64 in total.) The questioners from the audience will be chosen by means of
11 drawings that will take place at 8:15 a.m. on the morning of the annual meeting. Each of the 11 microphones
installed in the arena and main overflow room will host, so to speak, a drawing.

29

While I’m on the subject of our owners’ gaining knowledge, let me remind you that Charlie and I believe
all shareholders should simultaneously have access to new information that Berkshire releases and, if possible,
should also have adequate time to digest and analyze it before any trading takes place. That’s why we try to issue
financial data late on Fridays or early on Saturdays and why our annual meeting is always held on a Saturday. We
do not follow the common practice of talking one-on-one with large institutional investors or analysts, treating them
instead as we do all other shareholders. There is no one more important to us than the shareholder of limited means
who trusts us with a substantial portion of his savings.
************
For good reason, I regularly extol the accomplishments of our operating managers. They are truly All-Stars