interested to learn that we were unable to find a precedent for 
an advisory vote in which management seeks the opinions of 
shareholders about owner-related corporate policies.  Managers 
who put their trust in capitalism seem in no hurry to put their 
trust in capitalists.)

     We urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
pages 60 and 61.  If you wish to participate in future programs, 
we strongly urge that you immediately make sure that your shares 
are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in “street” 
name or nominee name.  Shares not so registered on September 30, 
1985 will be ineligible for the 1985 program.

                           *  *  *

     Our annual meeting will be on May 21, 1985 in Omaha, and I 
hope that you attend.  Many annual meetings are a waste of time, 
both for shareholders and for management.  Sometimes that is true 
because management is reluctant to open up on matters of business 
substance.  More often a nonproductive session is the fault of 
shareholder participants who are more concerned about their own 
moment on stage than they are about the affairs of the 
corporation.  What should be a forum for business discussion 
becomes a forum for theatrics, spleen-venting and advocacy of 
issues. (The deal is irresistible: for the price of one share you 
get to tell a captive audience your ideas as to how the world 
should be run.) Under such circumstances, the quality of the 
meeting often deteriorates from year to year as the antics of 
those interested in themselves discourage attendance by those 
interested in the business.

     Berkshire’s meetings are a different story.  The number of 
shareholders attending grows a bit each year and we have yet to 
experience a silly question or an ego-inspired commentary.  
Instead, we get a wide variety of thoughtful questions about the 
business.  Because the annual meeting is the time and place for 
these, Charlie and I are happy to answer them all, no matter how 
long it takes. (We cannot, however, respond to written or phoned 
questions at other times of the year; one-person-at-a time 
reporting is a poor use of management time in a company with 3000 
shareholders.) The only business matters that are off limits at 
the annual meeting are those about which candor might cost our 
company real money.  Our activities in securities would be the 
main example.

     We always have bragged a bit on these pages about the 
quality of our shareholder-partners.  Come to the annual meeting 
and you will see why.  Out-of-towners should schedule a stop at 
Nebraska Furniture Mart.  If you make some purchases, you’ll save 
far more than enough to pay for your trip, and you’ll enjoy the 
experience.

                                           Warren E. Buffett
February 25, 1985                          Chairman of the Board

     Subsequent Event: On March 18, a week after copy for this 
report went to the typographer but shortly before production, we 
agreed to purchase three million shares of Capital Cities 
Communications, Inc. at $172.50 per share.  Our purchase is 
contingent upon the acquisition of American Broadcasting 
Companies, Inc. by Capital Cities, and will close when that 
transaction closes.  At the earliest, that will be very late in 
1985.  Our admiration for the management of Capital Cities, led 
by Tom Murphy and Dan Burke, has been expressed several times in 
previous annual reports.  Quite simply, they are tops in both 
ability and integrity.  We will have more to say about this 
investment in next year’s report.
