underwriting profit. In 1999, however, we incurred a $1.4 billion underwriting loss that left us with float cost of 5.8%.
One mildly mitigating factor: We enthusiastically welcomed $400 million of the loss because it stems from business that
will deliver us exceptional float over the next decade. The balance of the loss, however, was decidedly unwelcome, and
our overall result must be judged extremely poor. Absent a mega-catastrophe, we expect float cost to fall in 2000, but
any decline will be tempered by our aggressive plans for GEICO, which we will discuss later.
There are a number of people who deserve credit for manufacturing so much “no-cost” float over the years.
Foremost is Ajit Jain. It’s simply impossible to overstate Ajit’s value to Berkshire: He has from scratch built an
outstanding reinsurance business, which during his tenure has earned an underwriting profit and now holds $6.3 billion
of float.
In Ajit, we have an underwriter equipped with the intelligence to properly rate most risks; the realism to forget
about those he can’t evaluate; the courage to write huge policies when the premium is appropriate; and the discipline to
reject even the smallest risk when the premium is inadequate. It is rare to find a person possessing any one of these
talents. For one person to have them all is remarkable.
Since Ajit specializes in super-cat reinsurance, a line in which losses are infrequent but extremely large when they
occur, his business is sure to be far more volatile than most insurance operations. To date, we have benefitted from good
luck on this volatile book. Even so, Ajit’s achievements are truly extraordinary.
In a smaller but nevertheless important way, our “other primary” insurance operation has also added to Berkshire’s
intrinsic value. This collection of insurers has delivered a $192 million underwriting profit over the past five years while
supplying us with the float shown in the table. In the insurance world, results like this are uncommon, and for their feat
we thank Rod Eldred, Brad Kinstler, John Kizer, Don Towle and Don Wurster.
As I mentioned earlier, the General Re operation had an exceptionally poor underwriting year in 1999 (though
investment income left the company well in the black). Our business was extremely underpriced, both domestically and
internationally, a condition that is improving but not yet corrected. Over time, however, the company should develop
a growing amount of low-cost float. At both General Re and its Cologne subsidiary, incentive compensation plans are
now directly tied to the variables of float growth and cost of float, the same variables that determine value for owners.
Even though a reinsurer may have a tightly focused and rational compensation system, it cannot count on every
year coming up roses. Reinsurance is a highly volatile business, and neither General Re nor Ajit’s operation is immune
to bad pricing behavior in the industry. But General Re has the distribution , the underwriting skills, the culture, and
— with Berkshire’s backing — the financial clout to become the world’s most profitable reinsurance company. Getting
there will take time, energy and discipline, but we have no doubt that Ron Ferguson and his crew can make it happen.
GEICO (1-800-847-7536 or GEICO.com)
GEICO made exceptional progress in 1999. The reasons are simple: We have a terrific business idea being
implemented by an extraordinary manager, Tony Nicely. When Berkshire purchased GEICO at the beginning of 1996,
we handed the keys to Tony and asked him to run the operation exactly as if he owned 100% of it. He has done the rest.
Take a look at his scorecard:
New Auto
Auto Policies
Years
Policies(1)(2)
In-Force(1)
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
(1)
(2)

346,882
384,217
443,539
592,300
868,430
1,249,875
1,648,095

“Voluntary” only; excludes assigned risks and the like.
Revised to exclude policies moved from one GEICO company to another.

7

2,011,055
2,147,549
2,310,037
2,543,699
2,949,439
3,562,644
4,328,900

In 1995, GEICO spent $33 million on marketing and had 652 telephone counselors. Last year the company spent
$242 million, and the counselor count grew to 2,631. And we are just starting: The pace will step up materially in 2000.
Indeed, we would happily commit $1 billion annually to marketing if we knew we could handle the business smoothly
and if we expected the last dollar spent to produce new business at an attractive cost.
Currently two trends are affecting acquisition costs. The bad news is that it has become more expensive to develop
inquiries. Media rates have risen, and we are also seeing diminishing returns — that is, as both we and our competitors
step up advertising, inquiries per ad fall for all of us. These negatives are partly offset, however, by the fact that our
closure ratio — the percentage of inquiries converted to sales — has steadily improved. Overall, we believe that our
cost of new business, though definitely rising, is well below that of the industry. Of even greater importance, our
operating costs for renewal business are the lowest among broad-based national auto insurers. Both of these major
competitive advantages are sustainable. Others may copy our model, but they will be unable to replicate our economics.
The table above makes it appear that GEICO’s retention of policyholders is falling, but for two reasons
appearances are in this case deceiving. First, in the last few years our business mix has moved away from “preferred”
policyholders, for whom industrywide retention rates are high, toward “standard” and “non-standard” policyholders for
whom retention rates are much lower. (Despite the nomenclature, the three classes have similar profit prospects.)
Second, retention rates for relatively new policyholders are always lower than those for long-time customers — and
because of our accelerated growth, our policyholder ranks now include an increased proportion of new customers.
Adjusted for these two factors, our retention rate has changed hardly at all.
We told you last year that underwriting margins for both GEICO and the industry would fall in 1999, and they
did. We make a similar prediction for 2000. A few years ago margins got too wide, having enjoyed the effects of an
unusual and unexpected decrease in the frequency and severity of accidents. The industry responded by reducing rates
— but now is having to contend with an increase in loss costs. We would not be surprised to see the margins of auto
insurers deteriorate by around three percentage points in 2000.
Two negatives besides worsening frequency and severity will hurt the industry this year. First, rate increases go
into effect only slowly, both because of regulatory delay and because insurance contracts must run their course before
new rates can be put in. Second, reported earnings of many auto insurers have benefitted in the last few years from
reserve releases, made possible because the companies overestimated their loss costs in still-earlier years. This reservoir
of redundant reserves has now largely dried up, and future boosts to earnings from this source will be minor at best.
In compensating its associates — from Tony on down — GEICO continues to use two variables, and only two,
in determining what bonuses and profit-sharing contributions will be: 1) its percentage growth in policyholders and 2)
the earnings of its “seasoned” business, meaning policies that have been with us for more than a year. We did
outstandingly well on both fronts during 1999 and therefore made a profit-sharing payment of 28.4% of salary (in total,
$113.3 million) to the great majority of our associates. Tony and I love writing those checks.
At Berkshire, we want to have compensation policies that are both easy to understand and in sync with what we
wish our associates to accomplish. Writing new business is expensive (and, as mentioned, getting more expensive).
If we were to include those costs in our calculation of bonuses — as managements did before our arrival at GEICO —
we would be penalizing our associates for garnering new policies, even though these are very much in Berkshire’s
interest. So, in effect, we say to our associates that we will foot the bill for new business. Indeed, because percentage
growth in policyholders is part of our compensation scheme, we reward our associates for producing this initiallyunprofitable business. And then we reward them additionally for holding down costs on our seasoned business.
Despite the extensive advertising we do, our best source of new business is word-of-mouth recommendations from
existing policyholders, who on the whole are pleased with our prices and service. An article published last year by
Kiplinger’s Personal Finance Magazine gives a good picture of where we stand in customer satisfaction: The
magazine’s survey of 20 state insurance departments showed that GEICO’s complaint ratio was well below the ratio
for most of its major competitors.
Our strong referral business means that we probably could maintain our policy count by spending as little as $50
million annually on advertising. That’s a guess, of course, and we will never know whether it is accurate because
Tony’s foot is going to stay on the advertising pedal (and my foot will be on his). Nevertheless, I want to emphasize