When you are told that all repurchases are harmful to shareholders or to the country, or
particularly beneficial to CEOs, you are listening to either an economic illiterate or a
silver-tongued demagogue (characters that are not mutually exclusive).

6

Almost endless details of Berkshire’s 2022 operations are laid out on pages K-33 – K-66.
Charlie and I, along with many Berkshire shareholders, enjoy poring over the many facts and
figures laid out in that section. These pages are not, however, required reading. There are many
Berkshire centimillionaires and, yes, billionaires who have never studied our financial figures.
They simply know that Charlie and I – along with our families and close friends – continue to have
very significant investments in Berkshire, and they trust us to treat their money as we do our own.
And that is a promise we can make.
************
Finally, an important warning: Even the operating earnings figure that we favor can easily
be manipulated by managers who wish to do so. Such tampering is often thought of as sophisticated
by CEOs, directors and their advisors. Reporters and analysts embrace its existence as well.
Beating “expectations” is heralded as a managerial triumph.
That activity is disgusting. It requires no talent to manipulate numbers: Only a deep desire
to deceive is required. “Bold imaginative accounting,” as a CEO once described his deception to
me, has become one of the shames of capitalism.
58 Years – and a Few Figures
In 1965, Berkshire was a one-trick pony, the owner of a venerable – but doomed – New
England textile operation. With that business on a death march, Berkshire needed an immediate
fresh start. Looking back, I was slow to recognize the severity of its problems.
And then came a stroke of good luck: National Indemnity became available in 1967, and
we shifted our resources toward insurance and other non-textile operations.
Thus began our journey to 2023, a bumpy road involving a combination of continuous
savings by our owners (that is, by their retaining earnings), the power of compounding, our
avoidance of major mistakes and – most important of all – the American Tailwind. America would
have done fine without Berkshire. The reverse is not true.
Berkshire now enjoys major ownership in an unmatched collection of huge and diversified
businesses. Let’s first look at the 5,000 or so publicly-held companies that trade daily on
NASDAQ, the NYSE and related venues. Within this group is housed the members of the S&P
500 Index, an elite collection of large and well-known American companies.
In aggregate, the 500 earned $1.8 trillion in 2021. I don’t yet have the final results for 2022.
Using, therefore, the 2021 figures, only 128 of the 500 (including Berkshire itself) earned $3 billion
or more. Indeed, 23 lost money.

7

At yearend 2022, Berkshire was the largest owner of eight of these giants: American
Express, Bank of America, Chevron, Coca-Cola, HP Inc., Moody’s, Occidental Petroleum and
Paramount Global.
In addition to those eight investees, Berkshire owns 100% of BNSF and 92% of BH
Energy, each with earnings that exceed the $3 billion mark noted above ($5.9 billion at BNSF and
$4.3 billion at BHE). Were these companies publicly-owned, they would replace two present
members of the 500. All told, our ten controlled and non-controlled behemoths leave Berkshire
more broadly aligned with the country’s economic future than is the case at any other U.S.
company. (This calculation leaves aside “fiduciary” operations such as pension funds and
investment companies.) In addition, Berkshire’s insurance operation, though conducted through
many individually-managed subsidiaries, has a value comparable to BNSF or BHE.
As for the future, Berkshire will always hold a boatload of cash and U.S. Treasury bills
along with a wide array of businesses. We will also avoid behavior that could result in any
uncomfortable cash needs at inconvenient times, including financial panics and unprecedented
insurance losses. Our CEO will always be the Chief Risk Officer – a task it is irresponsible to
delegate. Additionally, our future CEOs will have a significant part of their net worth in Berkshire
shares, bought with their own money. And yes, our shareholders will continue to save and prosper
by retaining earnings.
At Berkshire, there will be no finish line.
Some Surprising Facts About Federal Taxes
During the decade ending in 2021, the United States Treasury received about $32.3 trillion
in taxes while it spent $43.9 trillion.
Though economists, politicians and many of the public have opinions about the
consequences of that huge imbalance, Charlie and I plead ignorance and firmly believe that
near-term economic and market forecasts are worse than useless. Our job is to manage Berkshire’s
operations and finances in a manner that will achieve an acceptable result over time and that will
preserve the company’s unmatched staying power when financial panics or severe worldwide
recessions occur. Berkshire also offers some modest protection from runaway inflation, but this
attribute is far from perfect. Huge and entrenched fiscal deficits have consequences.
The $32 trillion of revenue was garnered by the Treasury through individual income taxes
(48%), social security and related receipts (34 1⁄ 2%), corporate income tax payments (8 1⁄ 2%) and a
wide variety of lesser levies. Berkshire’s contribution via the corporate income tax was $32 billion
during the decade, almost exactly a tenth of 1% of all money that the Treasury collected.

8

And that means – brace yourself – had there been roughly 1,000 taxpayers in the U.S.
matching Berkshire’s payments, no other businesses nor any of the country’s 131 million
households would have needed to pay any taxes to the federal government. Not a dime.
************
Millions, billions, trillions – we all know the words, but the sums involved are almost
impossible to comprehend. Let’s put physical dimensions to the numbers:
• If you convert $1 million into newly-printed $100 bills, you will have a stack that reaches
your chest.
• Perform the same exercise with $1 billion – this is getting exciting! – and the stack reaches
about 3⁄ 4 of a mile into the sky.
• Finally, imagine piling up $32 billion, the total of Berkshire’s 2012-21 federal income tax
payments. Now the stack grows to more than 21 miles in height, about three times the level
at which commercial airplanes usually cruise.
When it comes to federal taxes, individuals who own Berkshire can unequivocally state “I
gave at the office.”
************
At Berkshire we hope and expect to pay much more in taxes during the next decade. We
owe the country no less: America’s dynamism has made a huge contribution to whatever success
Berkshire has achieved – a contribution Berkshire will always need. We count on the American
Tailwind and, though it has been becalmed from time to time, its propelling force has always
returned.
I have been investing for 80 years – more than one-third of our country’s lifetime. Despite
our citizens’ penchant – almost enthusiasm – for self-criticism and self-doubt, I have yet to see a
time when it made sense to make a long-term bet against America. And I doubt very much that
any reader of this letter will have a different experience in the future.
Nothing Beats Having a Great Partner
Charlie and I think pretty much alike. But what it takes me a page to explain, he sums up
in a sentence. His version, moreover, is always more clearly reasoned and also more
artfully – some might add bluntly – stated.
Here are a few of his thoughts, many lifted from a very recent podcast:
• The world is full of foolish gamblers, and they will not do as well as the patient investor.
• If you don’t see the world the way it is, it’s like judging something through a distorted lens.
• All I want to know is where I’m going to die, so I’ll never go there. And a related thought:
Early on, write your desired obituary – and then behave accordingly.
• If you don’t care whether you are rational or not, you won’t work on it. Then you will stay
irrational and get lousy results.

9

• Patience can be learned. Having a long attention span and the ability to concentrate on one
thing for a long time is a huge advantage.
• You can learn a lot from dead people. Read of the deceased you admire and detest.
• Don’t bail away in a sinking boat if you can swim to one that is seaworthy.
• A great company keeps working after you are not; a mediocre company won’t do that.
• Warren and I don’t focus on the froth of the market. We seek out good long-term
investments and stubbornly hold them for a long time.
• Ben Graham said, “Day to day, the stock market is a voting machine; in the long term it’s
a weighing machine.” If you keep making something more valuable, then some wise person
is going to notice it and start buying.
• There is no such thing as a 100% sure thing when investing. Thus, the use of leverage is