and I will limit ourselves to allocating capital, controlling enterprise risk, choosing managers and
setting their compensation.

•

We make no attempt to woo Wall Street. Investors who buy and sell based upon media or analyst
commentary are not for us. Instead we want partners who join us at Berkshire because they wish
to make a long-term investment in a business they themselves understand and because it’s one that
follows policies with which they concur. If Charlie and I were to go into a small venture with a
few partners, we would seek individuals in sync with us, knowing that common goals and a shared
destiny make for a happy business “marriage” between owners and managers. Scaling up to giant
size doesn’t change that truth.
To build a compatible shareholder population, we try to communicate with our owners directly
and informatively. Our goal is to tell you what we would like to know if our positions were
reversed. Additionally, we try to post our quarterly and annual financial information on the
Internet early on weekends, thereby giving you and other investors plenty of time during a
non-trading period to digest just what has happened at our multi-faceted enterprise. (Occasionally,
SEC deadlines force a non-Friday disclosure.) These matters simply can’t be adequately
summarized in a few paragraphs, nor do they lend themselves to the kind of catchy headline that
journalists sometimes seek.
Last year we saw, in one instance, how sound-bite reporting can go wrong. Among the 12,830
words in the annual letter was this sentence: “We are certain, for example, that the economy will
be in shambles throughout 2009 – and probably well beyond – but that conclusion does not tell us
whether the market will rise or fall.” Many news organizations reported – indeed, blared – the first
part of the sentence while making no mention whatsoever of its ending. I regard this as terrible
journalism: Misinformed readers or viewers may well have thought that Charlie and I were
forecasting bad things for the stock market, though we had not only in that sentence, but also
elsewhere, made it clear we weren’t predicting the market at all. Any investors who were misled
by the sensationalists paid a big price: The Dow closed the day of the letter at 7,063 and finished
the year at 10,428.
Given a few experiences we’ve had like that, you can understand why I prefer that our
communications with you remain as direct and unabridged as possible.
************

Let’s move to the specifics of Berkshire’s operations. We have four major operating sectors, each
differing from the others in balance sheet and income account characteristics. Therefore, lumping them together,
as is standard in financial statements, impedes analysis. So we’ll present them as four separate businesses, which
is how Charlie and I view them.
5

Insurance
Our property-casualty (P/C) insurance business has been the engine behind Berkshire’s growth and will
continue to be. It has worked wonders for us. We carry our P/C companies on our books at $15.5 billion more
than their net tangible assets, an amount lodged in our “Goodwill” account. These companies, however, are
worth far more than their carrying value – and the following look at the economic model of the P/C industry will
tell you why.
Insurers receive premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases, such as those arising from
certain workers’ compensation accidents, payments can stretch over decades. This collect-now, pay-later model
leaves us holding large sums – money we call “float” – that will eventually go to others. Meanwhile, we get to
invest this float for Berkshire’s benefit. Though individual policies and claims come and go, the amount of float
we hold remains remarkably stable in relation to premium volume. Consequently, as our business grows, so does
our float.
If premiums exceed the total of expenses and eventual losses, we register an underwriting profit that
adds to the investment income produced from the float. This combination allows us to enjoy the use of free
money – and, better yet, get paid for holding it. Alas, the hope of this happy result attracts intense competition,
so vigorous in most years as to cause the P/C industry as a whole to operate at a significant underwriting loss.
This loss, in effect, is what the industry pays to hold its float. Usually this cost is fairly low, but in some
catastrophe-ridden years the cost from underwriting losses more than eats up the income derived from use of
float.
In my perhaps biased view, Berkshire has the best large insurance operation in the world. And I will
absolutely state that we have the best managers. Our float has grown from $16 million in 1967, when we entered
the business, to $62 billion at the end of 2009. Moreover, we have now operated at an underwriting profit for
seven consecutive years. I believe it likely that we will continue to underwrite profitably in most – though
certainly not all – future years. If we do so, our float will be cost-free, much as if someone deposited $62 billion
with us that we could invest for our own benefit without the payment of interest.
Let me emphasize again that cost-free float is not a result to be expected for the P/C industry as a
whole: In most years, premiums have been inadequate to cover claims plus expenses. Consequently, the
industry’s overall return on tangible equity has for many decades fallen far short of that achieved by the S&P
500. Outstanding economics exist at Berkshire only because we have some outstanding managers running some
unusual businesses. Our insurance CEOs deserve your thanks, having added many billions of dollars to
Berkshire’s value. It’s a pleasure for me to tell you about these all-stars.
************
Let’s start at GEICO, which is known to all of you because of its $800 million annual advertising
budget (close to twice that of the runner-up advertiser in the auto insurance field). GEICO is managed by Tony
Nicely, who joined the company at 18. Now 66, Tony still tap-dances to the office every day, just as I do at 79.
We both feel lucky to work at a business we love.
GEICO’s customers have warm feelings toward the company as well. Here’s proof: Since Berkshire
acquired control of GEICO in 1996, its market share has increased from 2.5% to 8.1%, a gain reflecting the net
addition of seven million policyholders. Perhaps they contacted us because they thought our gecko was cute, but
they bought from us to save important money. (Maybe you can as well; call 1-800-847-7536 or go to
www.GEICO.com.) And they’ve stayed with us because they like our service as well as our price.
Berkshire acquired GEICO in two stages. In 1976-80 we bought about one-third of the company’s
stock for $47 million. Over the years, large repurchases by the company of its own shares caused our position to
grow to about 50% without our having bought any more shares. Then, on January 2, 1996, we acquired the
remaining 50% of GEICO for $2.3 billion in cash, about 50 times the cost of our original purchase.

6

An old Wall Street joke gets close to our experience:
Customer:

Thanks for putting me in XYZ stock at 5. I hear it’s up to 18.

Broker:

Yes, and that’s just the beginning. In fact, the company is doing so well now,
that it’s an even better buy at 18 than it was when you made your purchase.

Customer:

Damn, I knew I should have waited.

GEICO’s growth may slow in 2010. U.S. vehicle registrations are actually down because of slumping
auto sales. Moreover, high unemployment is causing a growing number of drivers to go uninsured. (That’s illegal
almost everywhere, but if you’ve lost your job and still want to drive . . .) Our “low-cost producer” status,
however, is sure to give us significant gains in the future. In 1995, GEICO was the country’s sixth largest auto
insurer; now we are number three. The company’s float has grown from $2.7 billion to $9.6 billion. Equally
important, GEICO has operated at an underwriting profit in 13 of the 14 years Berkshire has owned it.
I became excited about GEICO in January 1951, when I first visited the company as a 20-year-old
student. Thanks to Tony, I’m even more excited today.
************
A hugely important event in Berkshire’s history occurred on a Saturday in 1985. Ajit Jain came into
our office in Omaha – and I immediately knew we had found a superstar. (He had been discovered by Mike
Goldberg, now elevated to St. Mike.)
We immediately put Ajit in charge of National Indemnity’s small and struggling reinsurance operation.
Over the years, he has built this business into a one-of-a-kind giant in the insurance world.
Staffed today by only 30 people, Ajit’s operation has set records for transaction size in several areas of
insurance. Ajit writes billion-dollar limits – and then keeps every dime of the risk instead of laying it off with
other insurers. Three years ago, he took over huge liabilities from Lloyds, allowing it to clean up its relationship