underwriting loss should fall considerably. It takes some time, however, for the full effect of rate increases to kick in,
and General Re is therefore likely to have another unsatisfactory underwriting year.

4

You should be aware that one item regularly working to widen the amount by which intrinsic value exceeds book
value is the annual charge against income we take for amortization of goodwill — an amount now running about $500
million. This charge reduces the amount of goodwill we show as an asset and likewise the amount that is included in
our book value. This is an accounting matter having nothing to do with true economic goodwill, which increases in most
years. But even if economic goodwill were to remain constant, the annual amortization charge would persistently widen
the gap between intrinsic value and book value.
Though we can’t give you a precise figure for Berkshire’s intrinsic value, or even an approximation, Charlie and
I can assure you that it far exceeds our $57.8 billion book value. Businesses such as See’s and Buffalo News are now
worth fifteen to twenty times the value at which they are carried on our books. Our goal is to continually widen this
spread at all subsidiaries.
A Managerial Story You Will Never Read Elsewhere
Berkshire’s collection of managers is unusual in several important ways. As one example, a very high percentage
of these men and women are independently wealthy, having made fortunes in the businesses that they run. They work
neither because they need the money nor because they are contractually obligated to — we have no contracts at Berkshire.
Rather, they work long and hard because they love their businesses. And I use the word “their” advisedly, since these
managers are truly in charge — there are no show-and-tell presentations in Omaha, no budgets to be approved by
headquarters, no dictums issued about capital expenditures. We simply ask our managers to run their companies as if
these are the sole asset of their families and will remain so for the next century.
Charlie and I try to behave with our managers just as we attempt to behave with Berkshire’s shareholders, treating
both groups as we would wish to be treated if our positions were reversed. Though “working” means nothing to me
financially, I love doing it at Berkshire for some simple reasons: It gives me a sense of achievement, a freedom to act as
I see fit and an opportunity to interact daily with people I like and trust. Why should our managers — accomplished
artists at what they do — see things differently?
In their relations with Berkshire, our managers often appear to be hewing to President Kennedy’s charge, “Ask
not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country.” Here’s a remarkable story from last year:
It’s about R. C. Willey, Utah’s dominant home furnishing business, which Berkshire purchased from Bill Child and his
family in 1995. Bill and most of his managers are Mormons, and for this reason R. C. Willey’s stores have never
operated on Sunday. This is a difficult way to do business: Sunday is the favorite shopping day for many customers.
Bill, nonetheless, stuck to his principles -- and while doing so built his business from $250,000 of annual sales in 1954,
when he took over, to $342 million in 1999.
Bill felt that R. C. Willey could operate successfully in markets outside of Utah and in 1997 suggested that we open
a store in Boise. I was highly skeptical about taking a no-Sunday policy into a new territory where we would be up
against entrenched rivals open seven days a week. Nevertheless, this was Bill’s business to run. So, despite my
reservations, I told him to follow both his business judgment and his religious convictions.
Bill then insisted on a truly extraordinary proposition: He would personally buy the land and build the store — for
about $9 million as it turned out — and would sell it to us at his cost if it proved to be successful. On the other hand,
if sales fell short of his expectations, we could exit the business without paying Bill a cent. This outcome, of course, would
leave him with a huge investment in an empty building. I told him that I appreciated his offer but felt that if Berkshire
was going to get the upside it should also take the downside. Bill said nothing doing: If there was to be failure because
of his religious beliefs, he wanted to take the blow personally.
The store opened last August and immediately became a huge success. Bill thereupon turned the property over
to us — including some extra land that had appreciated significantly — and we wrote him a check for his cost. And get
this: Bill refused to take a dime of interest on the capital he had tied up over the two years.

5

If a manager has behaved similarly at some other public corporation, I haven’t heard about it. You can understand
why the opportunity to partner with people like Bill Child causes me to tap dance to work every morning.
************
A footnote: After our “soft” opening in August, we had a grand opening of the Boise store about a month later.
Naturally, I went there to cut the ribbon (your Chairman, I wish to emphasize, is good for something). In my talk I told
the crowd how sales had far exceeded expectations, making us, by a considerable margin, the largest home furnishings
store in Idaho. Then, as the speech progressed, my memory miraculously began to improve. By the end of my talk, it
all had come back to me: Opening a store in Boise had been my idea.
The Economics of Property/Casualty Insurance
Our main business — though we have others of great importance — is insurance. To understand Berkshire,
therefore, it is necessary that you understand how to evaluate an insurance company. The key determinants are: (1) the
amount of float that the business generates; (2) its cost; and (3) most critical of all, the long-term outlook for both of these
factors.
To begin with, float is money we hold but don't own. In an insurance operation, float arises because premiums are
received before losses are paid, an interval that sometimes extends over many years. During that time, the insurer invests
the money. This pleasant activity typically carries with it a downside: The premiums that an insurer takes in usually
do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually must pay. That leaves it running an "underwriting loss," which is the
cost of float. An insurance business has value if its cost of float over time is less than the cost the company would
otherwise incur to obtain funds. But the business is a lemon if its cost of float is higher than market rates for money.
A caution is appropriate here: Because loss costs must be estimated, insurers have enormous latitude in figuring
their underwriting results, and that makes it very difficult for investors to calculate a company's true cost of float. Errors
of estimation, usually innocent but sometimes not, can be huge. The consequences of these miscalculations flow directly
into earnings. An experienced observer can usually detect large-scale errors in reserving, but the general public can
typically do no more than accept what's presented, and at times I have been amazed by the numbers that big-name
auditors have implicitly blessed. In 1999 a number of insurers announced reserve adjustments that made a mockery of
the “earnings” that investors had relied on earlier when making their buy and sell decisions. At Berkshire, we strive to
be conservative and consistent in our reserving. Even so, we warn you that an unpleasant surprise is always possible.
The table that follows shows (at intervals) the float generated by the various segments of Berkshire’s insurance
operations since we entered the business 33 years ago upon acquiring National Indemnity Company (whose traditional
lines are included in the segment “Other Primary”). For the table we have calculated our float — which we generate in
large amounts relative to our premium volume — by adding net loss reserves, loss adjustment reserves, funds held under
reinsurance assumed and unearned premium reserves, and then subtracting agents balances, prepaid acquisition costs,
prepaid taxes and deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance. (Got that?)
Yearend Float (in $ millions)

Year
1967
1977
1987
1997

GEICO

1998
1999

3,125
3,444

General Re

Other
Reinsurance

2,917
14,909
15,166

40
701
4,014

Other
Primary
20
131
807
455

Total
20
171
1,508
7,386

4,305
6,285

415
403

22,754
25,298

Growth of float is important — but its cost is what’s vital. Over the years we have usually recorded only a small
underwriting loss — which means our cost of float was correspondingly low — or actually had an underwriting profit,
6

which means we were being paid for holding other people’s money. Indeed, our cumulative result through 1998 was an