---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2013
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2013ar/2013ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 352 - 1663
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Berkshire’s gain in net worth during 2013 was $34.2 billion. That gain was after our deducting $1.8 billion
of charges – meaningless economically, as I will explain later – that arose from our purchase of the minority
interests in Marmon and Iscar. After those charges, the per-share book value of both our Class A and Class B stock
increased by 18.2%. Over the last 49 years (that is, since present management took over), book value has grown
from $19 to $134,973, a rate of 19.7% compounded annually.*
On the facing page, we show our long-standing performance measurement: The yearly change in
Berkshire’s per-share book value versus the market performance of the S&P 500. What counts, of course, is pershare intrinsic value. But that’s a subjective figure, and book value is useful as a rough tracking indicator. (An
extended discussion of intrinsic value is included in our Owner-Related Business Principles on pages 103 - 108.
Those principles have been included in our reports for 30 years, and we urge new and prospective shareholders to
read them.)
As I’ve long told you, Berkshire’s intrinsic value far exceeds its book value. Moreover, the difference has
widened considerably in recent years. That’s why our 2012 decision to authorize the repurchase of shares at 120%
of book value made sense. Purchases at that level benefit continuing shareholders because per-share intrinsic value
exceeds that percentage of book value by a meaningful amount. We did not purchase shares during 2013, however,
because the stock price did not descend to the 120% level. If it does, we will be aggressive.
Charlie Munger, Berkshire’s vice chairman and my partner, and I believe both Berkshire’s book value and
intrinsic value will outperform the S&P in years when the market is down or moderately up. We expect to fall
short, though, in years when the market is strong – as we did in 2013. We have underperformed in ten of our 49
years, with all but one of our shortfalls occurring when the S&P gain exceeded 15%.
Over the stock market cycle between yearends 2007 and 2013, we overperformed the S&P. Through full
cycles in future years, we expect to do that again. If we fail to do so, we will not have earned our pay. After all, you
could always own an index fund and be assured of S&P results.
The Year at Berkshire
On the operating front, just about everything turned out well for us last year – in certain cases very well.
Let me count the ways:
Š

We completed two large acquisitions, spending almost $18 billion to purchase all of NV Energy and a
major interest in H. J. Heinz. Both companies fit us well and will be prospering a century from now.
With the Heinz purchase, moreover, we created a partnership template that may be used by Berkshire in
future acquisitions of size. Here, we teamed up with investors at 3G Capital, a firm led by my friend, Jorge
Paulo Lemann. His talented associates – Bernardo Hees, Heinz’s new CEO, and Alex Behring, its
Chairman – are responsible for operations.

* All per-share figures used in this report apply to Berkshire’s A shares. Figures for the B shares are
1/1500th of those shown for A.
3

Berkshire is the financing partner. In that role, we purchased $8 billion of Heinz preferred stock that
carries a 9% coupon but also possesses other features that should increase the preferred’s annual return to
12% or so. Berkshire and 3G each purchased half of the Heinz common stock for $4.25 billion.
Though the Heinz acquisition has some similarities to a “private equity” transaction, there is a crucial
difference: Berkshire never intends to sell a share of the company. What we would like, rather, is to buy
more, and that could happen: Certain 3G investors may sell some or all of their shares in the future, and
we might increase our ownership at such times. Berkshire and 3G could also decide at some point that it
would be mutually beneficial if we were to exchange some of our preferred for common shares (at an
equity valuation appropriate to the time).
Our partnership took control of Heinz in June, and operating results so far are encouraging. Only minor
earnings from Heinz, however, are reflected in those we report for Berkshire this year: One-time charges
incurred in the purchase and subsequent restructuring of operations totaled $1.3 billion. Earnings in 2014
will be substantial.
With Heinz, Berkshire now owns 8 1⁄ 2 companies that, were they stand-alone businesses, would be in the
Fortune 500. Only 491 1⁄ 2 to go.
NV Energy, purchased for $5.6 billion by MidAmerican Energy, our utility subsidiary, supplies electricity
to about 88% of Nevada’s population. This acquisition fits nicely into our existing electric-utility
operation and offers many possibilities for large investments in renewable energy. NV Energy will not be
MidAmerican’s last major acquisition.
Š

MidAmerican is one of our “Powerhouse Five” – a collection of large non-insurance businesses that, in
aggregate, had a record $10.8 billion of pre-tax earnings in 2013, up $758 million from 2012. The other
companies in this sainted group are BNSF, Iscar, Lubrizol and Marmon.
Of the five, only MidAmerican, then earning $393 million pre-tax, was owned by Berkshire nine years
ago. Subsequently, we purchased another three of the five on an all-cash basis. In acquiring the fifth,
BNSF, we paid about 70% of the cost in cash, and, for the remainder, issued shares that increased the
number outstanding by 6.1%. In other words, the $10.4 billion gain in annual earnings delivered Berkshire
by the five companies over the nine-year span has been accompanied by only minor dilution. That satisfies
our goal of not simply growing, but rather increasing per-share results.
If the U.S. economy continues to improve in 2014, we can expect earnings of our Powerhouse Five to
improve also – perhaps by $1 billion or so pre-tax.

Š

Our many dozens of smaller non-insurance businesses earned $4.7 billion pre-tax last year, up from $3.9
billion in 2012. Here, too, we expect further gains in 2014.

Š

Berkshire’s extensive insurance operation again operated at an underwriting profit in 2013 – that makes 11
years in a row – and increased its float. During that 11-year stretch, our float – money that doesn’t belong
to us but that we can invest for Berkshire’s benefit – has grown from $41 billion to $77 billion.
Concurrently, our underwriting profit has aggregated $22 billion pre-tax, including $3 billion realized in
2013. And all of this all began with our 1967 purchase of National Indemnity for $8.6 million.
We now own a wide variety of exceptional insurance operations. Best known is GEICO, the car insurer
Berkshire acquired in full at yearend 1995 (having for many years prior owned a partial interest). GEICO
in 1996 ranked number seven among U.S. auto insurers. Now, GEICO is number two, having recently
passed Allstate. The reasons for this amazing growth are simple: low prices and reliable service. You can
do yourself a favor by calling 1-800-847-7536 or checking Geico.com to see if you, too, can cut your
insurance costs. Buy some of Berkshire’s other products with the savings.

4

Š

While Charlie and I search for elephants, our many subsidiaries are regularly making bolt-on acquisitions.
Last year, we contracted for 25 of these, scheduled to cost $3.1 billion in aggregate. These transactions
ranged from $1.9 million to $1.1 billion in size.
Charlie and I encourage these deals. They deploy capital in activities that fit with our existing businesses
and that will be managed by our corps of expert managers. The result is no more work for us and more
earnings for you. Many more of these bolt-on deals will be made in future years. In aggregate, they will be
meaningful.

Š

Last year we invested $3.5 billion in the surest sort of bolt-on: the purchase of additional shares in two
wonderful businesses that we already controlled. In one case – Marmon – our purchases brought us to the
100% ownership we had signed up for in 2008. In the other instance – Iscar – the Wertheimer family
elected to exercise a put option it held, selling us the 20% of the business it retained when we bought
control in 2006.
These purchases added about $300 million pre-tax to our current earning power and also delivered us $800
million of cash. Meanwhile, the same nonsensical accounting rule that I described in last year’s letter
required that we enter these purchases on our books at $1.8 billion less than we paid, a process that
reduced Berkshire’s book value. (The charge was made to “capital in excess of par value”; figure that one
out.) This weird accounting, you should understand, instantly increased Berkshire’s excess of intrinsic
value over book value by the same $1.8 billion.

Š

Our subsidiaries spent a record $11 billion on plant and equipment during 2013, roughly twice our