---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2004
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2004ar/2004ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 316 - 1960
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Our gain in net worth during 2004 was $8.3 billion, which increased the per-share book value of
both our Class A and Class B stock by 10.5%. Over the last 40 years (that is, since present management
took over) book value has grown from $19 to $55,824, a rate of 21.9% compounded annually.*
It’s per-share intrinsic value that counts, however, not book value. Here, the news is good:
Between 1964 and 2004, Berkshire morphed from a struggling northern textile business whose intrinsic
value was less than book into a diversified enterprise worth far more than book. Our 40-year gain in
intrinsic value has therefore somewhat exceeded our 21.9% gain in book. (For an explanation of intrinsic
value and the economic principles that guide Charlie Munger, my partner and Berkshire’s vice-chairman,
and me in running Berkshire, please read our Owner’s Manual, beginning on page 73.)
Despite their shortcomings, yearly calculations of book value are useful at Berkshire as a slightly
understated gauge for measuring the long-term rate of increase in our intrinsic value. The calculations are
less relevant, however, than they once were in rating any single year’s performance versus the S&P 500
index (a comparison we display on the facing page). Our equity holdings (including convertible preferreds)
have fallen considerably as a percentage of our net worth, from an average of 114% in the 1980s, for
example, to less than 50% in recent years. Therefore, yearly movements in the stock market now affect a
much smaller portion of our net worth than was once the case, a fact that will normally cause us to
underperform in years when stocks rise substantially and overperform in years when they fall.
However the yearly comparisons work out, Berkshire’s long-term performance versus the S&P
remains all-important. Our shareholders can buy the S&P through an index fund at very low cost. Unless
we achieve gains in per-share intrinsic value in the future that outdo the S&P, Charlie and I will be adding
nothing to what you can accomplish on your own.
Last year, Berkshire’s book-value gain of 10.5% fell short of the index’s 10.9% return. Our
lackluster performance was not due to any stumbles by the CEOs of our operating businesses: As always,
they pulled more than their share of the load. My message to them is simple: Run your business as if it
were the only asset your family will own over the next hundred years. Almost invariably they do just that
and, after taking care of the needs of their business, send excess cash to Omaha for me to deploy.
I didn’t do that job very well last year. My hope was to make several multi-billion dollar
acquisitions that would add new and significant streams of earnings to the many we already have. But I
struck out. Additionally, I found very few attractive securities to buy. Berkshire therefore ended the year
with $43 billion of cash equivalents, not a happy position. Charlie and I will work to translate some of this
hoard into more interesting assets during 2005, though we can’t promise success.
In one respect, 2004 was a remarkable year for the stock market, a fact buried in the maze of
numbers on page 2. If you examine the 35 years since the 1960s ended, you will find that an investor’s
return, including dividends, from owning the S&P has averaged 11.2% annually (well above what we
expect future returns to be). But if you look for years with returns anywhere close to that 11.2% – say,
between 8% and 14% – you will find only one before 2004. In other words, last year’s “normal” return is
anything but.

*All figures used in this report apply to Berkshire’s A shares, the successor to the only stock that
the company had outstanding before 1996. The B shares have an economic interest equal to 1/30th that of
the A.

3

Over the 35 years, American business has delivered terrific results. It should therefore have been
easy for investors to earn juicy returns: All they had to do was piggyback Corporate America in a
diversified, low-expense way. An index fund that they never touched would have done the job. Instead
many investors have had experiences ranging from mediocre to disastrous.
There have been three primary causes: first, high costs, usually because investors traded
excessively or spent far too much on investment management; second, portfolio decisions based on tips and
fads rather than on thoughtful, quantified evaluation of businesses; and third, a start-and-stop approach to
the market marked by untimely entries (after an advance has been long underway) and exits (after periods
of stagnation or decline). Investors should remember that excitement and expenses are their enemies. And
if they insist on trying to time their participation in equities, they should try to be fearful when others are
greedy and greedy only when others are fearful.
Sector Results
As managers, Charlie and I want to give our owners the financial information and commentary we
would wish to receive if our roles were reversed. To do this with both clarity and reasonable brevity
becomes more difficult as Berkshire’s scope widens. Some of our businesses have vastly different
economic characteristics from others, which means that our consolidated statements, with their jumble of
figures, make useful analysis almost impossible.
On the following pages, therefore, we will present some balance sheet and earnings figures from
our four major categories of businesses along with commentary about each. We particularly want you to
understand the limited circumstances under which we will use debt, given that we typically shun it. We
will not, however, inundate you with data that has no real value in estimating Berkshire’s intrinsic value.
Doing so would tend to obfuscate the facts that count.
Regulated Utility Businesses
We have an 80.5% (fully diluted) interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings, which owns a wide
variety of utility operations. The largest of these are (1) Yorkshire Electricity and Northern Electric, whose
3.7 million electric customers make it the third largest distributor of electricity in the U.K.; (2)
MidAmerican Energy, which serves 698,000 electric customers, primarily in Iowa; and (3) Kern River and
Northern Natural pipelines, which carry 7.9% of the natural gas consumed in the U.S.
The remaining 19.5% of MidAmerican is owned by three partners of ours: Dave Sokol and Greg
Abel, the brilliant managers of these businesses, and Walter Scott, a long-time friend of mine who
introduced me to the company. Because MidAmerican is subject to the Public Utility Holding Company
Act (“PUHCA”), Berkshire’s voting interest is limited to 9.9%. Voting control rests with Walter.
Our limited voting interest forces us to account for MidAmerican in an abbreviated manner.
Instead of our fully incorporating the company’s assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into Berkshire’s
statements, we make one-line entries only in both our balance sheet and income account. It’s likely,
though, that PUHCA will someday – perhaps soon – be repealed or that accounting rules will change.
Berkshire’s consolidated figures would then incorporate all of MidAmerican, including the substantial debt
it utilizes (though this debt is not now, nor will it ever be, an obligation of Berkshire).
At yearend, $1.478 billion of MidAmerican’s junior debt was payable to Berkshire. This debt has
allowed acquisitions to be financed without our partners needing to increase their already substantial
investments in MidAmerican. By charging 11% interest, Berkshire is compensated fairly for putting up the
funds needed for purchases, while our partners are spared dilution of their equity interests. Because
MidAmerican made no large acquisitions last year, it paid down $100 million of what it owes us.

4

MidAmerican also owns a significant non-utility business, HomeServices of America, the second
largest real estate broker in the country. Unlike our utility operations, this business is highly cyclical, but
nevertheless one we view enthusiastically. We have an exceptional manager, Ron Peltier, who through
both his acquisition and operational skills is building a brokerage powerhouse.
HomeServices participated in $59.8 billion of transactions in 2004, a gain of $11.2 billion from
2003. About 24% of the increase came from six acquisitions made during the year. Through our 17
brokerage firms – all of which retain their local identities – we employ more than 18,000 brokers in 18
states. HomeServices is almost certain to grow substantially in the next decade as we continue to acquire
leading localized operations.
Last year MidAmerican wrote off a major investment in a zinc recovery project that was initiated
in 1998 and became operational in 2002. Large quantities of zinc are present in the brine produced by our
California geothermal operations, and we believed we could profitably extract the metal. For many
months, it appeared that commercially-viable recoveries were imminent. But in mining, just as in oil
exploration, prospects have a way of “teasing” their developers, and every time one problem was solved,
another popped up. In September, we threw in the towel.