investments or, better yet, a really major business acquisition that would absorb our liquid assets. Currently,
however, we see nothing on the horizon.
Once we knew that the General Re merger would definitely take place, we asked the company to dispose of
the equities that it held. (As mentioned earlier, we do not manage the Cologne Re portfolio, which includes many
equities.) General Re subsequently eliminated its positions in about 250 common stocks, incurring $935 million
of taxes in the process. This “clean sweep” approach reflects a basic principle that Charlie and I employ in
business and investing: We don’t back into decisions.
Last year I deviated from my standard practice of not disclosing our investments (other than those we are
legally required to report) and told you about three unconventional investments we had made. There were several
reasons behind that disclosure. First, questions about our silver position that we had received from regulatory
authorities led us to believe that they wished us to publicly acknowledge this investment. Second, our holdings
of zero-coupon bonds were so large that we wanted our owners to know of this investment’s potential impact on
Berkshire’s net worth. Third, we simply wanted to alert you to the fact that we sometimes do make unconventional
commitments.
Normally, however, as discussed in the Owner’s Manual on page 61, we see no advantage in talking about
specific investment actions. Therefore — unless we again take a position that is particularly large — we will not
post you as to what we are doing in respect to any specific holding of an unconventional sort. We can report,
however, that we have eliminated certain of the positions discussed last year and added certain others.
Our never-comment-even-if-untrue policy in regard to investments may disappoint “piggybackers” but will
benefit owners: Your Berkshire shares would be worth less if we discussed what we are doing. Incidentally, we
should warn you that media speculation about our investment moves continues in most cases to be incorrect.
People who rely on such commentary do so at their own peril.
Accounting — Part 1
Our General Re acquisition put a spotlight on an egregious flaw in accounting procedure. Sharp-eyed
shareholders reading our proxy statement probably noticed an unusual item on page 60. In the pro-forma
statement of income — which detailed how the combined 1997 earnings of the two entities would have been
affected by the merger — there was an item stating that compensation expense would have been increased by $63
million.
This item, we hasten to add, does not signal that either Charlie or I have experienced a major personality
change. (He still travels coach and quotes Ben Franklin.) Nor does it indicate any shortcoming in General Re’s
accounting practices, which have followed GAAP to the letter. Instead, the pro-forma adjustment came about
because we are replacing General Re’s longstanding stock option plan with a cash plan that ties the incentive
compensation of General Re managers to their operating achievements. Formerly what counted for these managers
was General Re’s stock price; now their payoff will come from the business performance they deliver.
The new plan and the terminated option arrangement have matching economics, which means that the rewards
they deliver to employees should, for a given level of performance, be the same. But what these people could have
formerly anticipated earning from new option grants will now be paid in cash. (Options granted in past years
remain outstanding.)
Though the two plans are an economic wash, the cash plan we are putting in will produce a vastly different
accounting result. This Alice-in-Wonderland outcome occurs because existing accounting principles ignore the cost
of stock options when earnings are being calculated, even though options are a huge and increasing expense at a
great many corporations. In effect, accounting principles offer management a choice: Pay employees in one form
and count the cost, or pay them in another form and ignore the cost. Small wonder then that the use of options

13

has mushroomed. This lop-sided choice has a big downside for owners, however: Though options, if properly
structured, can be an appropriate, and even ideal, way to compensate and motivate top managers, they are more
often wildly capricious in their distribution of rewards, inefficient as motivators, and inordinately expensive for
shareholders.
Whatever the merits of options may be, their accounting treatment is outrageous. Think for a moment of that
$190 million we are going to spend for advertising at GEICO this year. Suppose that instead of paying cash for
our ads, we paid the media in ten-year, at-the-market Berkshire options. Would anyone then care to argue
that Berkshire had not borne a cost for advertising, or should not be charged this cost on its books?
Perhaps Bishop Berkeley — you may remember him as the philosopher who mused about trees falling in a
forest when no one was around — would believe that an expense unseen by an accountant does not exist. Charlie
and I, however, have trouble being philosophical about unrecorded costs. When we consider investing in an optionissuing company, we make an appropriate downward adjustment to reported earnings, simply subtracting an amount
equal to what the company could have realized by publicly selling options of like quantity and structure. Similarly,
if we contemplate an acquisition, we include in our evaluation the cost of replacing any option plan. Then, if we
make a deal, we promptly take that cost out of hiding.
Readers who disagree with me about options will by this time be mentally quarreling with my equating the
cost of options issued to employees with those that might theoretically be sold and traded publicly. It is true, to
state one of these arguments, that employee options are sometimes forfeited — that lessens the damage done to
shareholders — whereas publicly-offered options would not be. It is true, also, that companies receive a tax
deduction when employee options are exercised; publicly-traded options deliver no such benefit. But there’s an
offset to these points: Options issued to employees are often repriced, a transformation that makes them much more
costly than the public variety.
It’s sometimes argued that a non-transferable option given to an employee is less valuable to him than would
be a publicly-traded option that he could freely sell. That fact, however, does not reduce the cost of the nontransferable option: Giving an employee a company car that can only be used for certain purposes diminishes its
value to the employee, but does not in the least diminish its cost to the employer.
The earning revisions that Charlie and I have made for options in recent years have frequently cut the
reported per-share figures by 5%, with 10% not all that uncommon. On occasion, the downward adjustment has
been so great that it has affected our portfolio decisions, causing us either to make a sale or to pass on a stock
purchase we might otherwise have made.
A few years ago we asked three questions in these pages to which we have not yet received an answer: “If
options aren’t a form of compensation, what are they? If compensation isn’t an expense, what is it? And, if
expenses shouldn’t go into the calculation of earnings, where in the world should they go?”
Accounting — Part 2
The role that managements have played in stock-option accounting has hardly been benign: A distressing
number of both CEOs and auditors have in recent years bitterly fought FASB’s attempts to replace option fiction
with truth and virtually none have spoken out in support of FASB. Its opponents even enlisted Congress in the
fight, pushing the case that inflated figures were in the national interest.
Still, I believe that the behavior of managements has been even worse when it comes to restructurings and
merger accounting. Here, many managements purposefully work at manipulating numbers and deceiving investors.
And, as Michael Kinsley has said about Washington: “The scandal isn’t in what’s done that’s illegal but rather
in what’s legal.”
It was once relatively easy to tell the good guys in accounting from the bad: The late 1960's, for example,
brought on an orgy of what one charlatan dubbed “bold, imaginative accounting” (the practice of which,
incidentally, made him loved for a time by Wall Street because he never missed expectations). But most investors

14

of that period knew who was playing games. And, to their credit, virtually all of America’s most-admired
companies then shunned deception.
In recent years, probity has eroded. Many major corporations still play things straight, but a significant and
growing number of otherwise high-grade managers — CEOs you would be happy to have as spouses for your
children or as trustees under your will — have come to the view that it’s okay to manipulate earnings to satisfy
what they believe are Wall Street’s desires. Indeed, many CEOs think this kind of manipulation is not only okay,
but actually their duty.
These managers start with the assumption, all too common, that their job at all times is to encourage the