certificates for warehouse receipts.  The profits were good and 
my only expense was subway tokens.

     The architect of Rockwood’s restructuring was an unknown, 
but brilliant Chicagoan, Jay Pritzker, then 32.  If you’re 
familiar with Jay’s subsequent record, you won’t be surprised to 
hear the action worked out rather well for Rockwood’s continuing 
shareholders also.  From shortly before the tender until shortly 
after it, Rockwood stock appreciated from 15 to 100, even though 
the company was experiencing large operating losses.  Sometimes 
there is more to stock valuation than price-earnings ratios.

     In recent years, most arbitrage operations have involved 
takeovers, friendly and unfriendly.  With acquisition fever 
rampant, with anti-trust challenges almost non-existent, and with 
bids often ratcheting upward, arbitrageurs have prospered 
mightily.  They have not needed special talents to do well; the 
trick, a la Peter Sellers in the movie, has simply been “Being 
There.” In Wall Street the old proverb has been reworded: “Give a 
man a fish and you feed him for a day.  Teach him how to 
arbitrage and you feed him forever.” (If, however, he studied at 
the Ivan Boesky School of Arbitrage, it may be a state 
institution that supplies his meals.)

     To evaluate arbitrage situations you must answer four 
questions: (1) How likely is it that the promised event will 
indeed occur? (2) How long will your money be tied up? (3) What 
chance is there that something still better will transpire - a 
competing takeover bid, for example? and (4) What will happen if 
the event does not take place because of anti-trust action, 
financing glitches, etc.?

     Arcata Corp., one of our more serendipitous arbitrage 
experiences, illustrates the twists and turns of the business.  
On September 28, 1981 the directors of Arcata agreed in principle 
to sell the company to Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Co. (KKR), 
then and now a major leveraged-buy out firm.  Arcata was in the 
printing and forest products businesses and had one other thing 
going for it: In 1978 the U.S. Government had taken title to 
10,700 acres of Arcata timber, primarily old-growth redwood, to 
expand Redwood National Park.  The government had paid $97.9 
million, in several installments, for this acreage, a sum Arcata 
was contesting as grossly inadequate.  The parties also disputed 
the interest rate that should apply to the period between the 
taking of the property and final payment for it.  The enabling 
legislation stipulated 6% simple interest; Arcata argued for a 
much higher and compounded rate.

     Buying a company with a highly-speculative, large-sized 
claim in litigation creates a negotiating problem, whether the 
claim is on behalf of or against the company.  To solve this 
problem, KKR offered $37.00 per Arcata share plus two-thirds of 
any additional amounts paid by the government for the redwood 
lands.

     Appraising this arbitrage opportunity, we had to ask 
ourselves whether KKR would consummate the transaction since, 
among other things, its offer was contingent upon its obtaining 
“satisfactory financing.” A clause of this kind is always 
dangerous for the seller: It offers an easy exit for a suitor 
whose ardor fades between proposal and marriage.  However, we 
were not particularly worried about this possibility because 
KKR’s past record for closing had been good.

     We also had to ask ourselves what would happen if the KKR 
deal did fall through, and here we also felt reasonably 
comfortable: Arcata’s management and directors had been shopping 
the company for some time and were clearly determined to sell.  
If KKR went away, Arcata would likely find another buyer, though 
of course, the price might be lower.

     Finally, we had to ask ourselves what the redwood claim 
might be worth.  Your Chairman, who can’t tell an elm from an 
oak, had no trouble with that one: He coolly evaluated the claim 
at somewhere between zero and a whole lot.

     We started buying Arcata stock, then around $33.50, on 
September 30 and in eight weeks purchased about 400,000 shares, 
or 5% of the company.  The initial announcement said that the 
$37.00 would be paid in January, 1982.  Therefore, if everything 
had gone perfectly, we would have achieved an annual rate of 
return of about 40% - not counting the redwood claim, which would 
have been frosting.

     All did not go perfectly.  In December it was announced that 
the closing would be delayed a bit.  Nevertheless, a definitive 
agreement was signed on January 4. Encouraged, we raised our 
stake, buying at around $38.00 per share and increasing our 
holdings to 655,000 shares, or over 7% of the company.  Our 
willingness to pay up - even though the closing had been 
postponed - reflected our leaning toward “a whole lot” rather 
than “zero” for the redwoods.

     Then, on February 25 the lenders said they were taking a 
“second look” at financing terms “ in view of the severely 
depressed housing industry and its impact on Arcata’s outlook.” 
The stockholders’ meeting was postponed again, to April.  An 
Arcata spokesman said he “did not think the fate of the 
acquisition itself was imperiled.” When arbitrageurs hear such 
reassurances, their minds flash to the old saying: “He lied like 
a finance minister on the eve of devaluation.”

     On March 12 KKR said its earlier deal wouldn’t work, first 
cutting its offer to $33.50, then two days later raising it to 
$35.00. On March 15, however, the directors turned this bid down 
and accepted another group’s offer of $37.50 plus one-half of any 
redwood recovery.  The shareholders okayed the deal, and the 
$37.50 was paid on June 4.

     We received $24.6 million versus our cost of $22.9 million; 
our average holding period was close to six months.  Considering 
the trouble this transaction encountered, our 15% annual rate of 
return excluding any value for the redwood claim - was more than 
satisfactory.

     But the best was yet to come.  The trial judge appointed two 
commissions, one to look at the timber’s value, the other to 
consider the interest rate questions.  In January 1987, the first 
commission said the redwoods were worth $275.7 million and the 
second commission recommended a compounded, blended rate of 
return working out to about 14%.

     In August 1987 the judge upheld these conclusions, which 
meant a net amount of about $600 million would be due Arcata.  
The government then appealed.  In 1988, though, before this 
appeal was heard, the claim was settled for $519 million.  
Consequently, we received an additional $29.48 per share, or 
about $19.3 million.  We will get another $800,000 or so in 1989.

     Berkshire’s arbitrage activities differ from those of many 
arbitrageurs.  First, we participate in only a few, and usually 
very large, transactions each year.  Most practitioners buy into 
a great many deals perhaps 50 or more per year.  With that many 
irons in the fire, they must spend most of their time monitoring 
both the progress of deals and the market movements of the 
related stocks.  This is not how Charlie nor I wish to spend our 
lives. (What’s the sense in getting rich just to stare at a 
ticker tape all day?)

     Because we diversify so little, one particularly profitable 
or unprofitable transaction will affect our yearly result from 
arbitrage far more than it will the typical arbitrage operation.  
So far, Berkshire has not had a really bad experience.  But we 
will - and when it happens we’ll report the gory details to you.

     The other way we differ from some arbitrage operations is 
that we participate only in transactions that have been publicly 
announced.  We do not trade on rumors or try to guess takeover 
candidates.  We just read the newspapers, think about a few of 
the big propositions, and go by our own sense of probabilities.

     At yearend, our only major arbitrage position was 3,342,000 
shares of RJR Nabisco with a cost of $281.8 million and a market 
value of $304.5 million.  In January we increased our holdings to 
roughly four million shares and in February we eliminated our 
position.  About three million shares were accepted when we 
tendered our holdings to KKR, which acquired RJR, and the 
returned shares were promptly sold in the market.  Our pre-tax 
profit was a better-than-expected $64 million.

     Earlier, another familiar face turned up in the RJR bidding 
contest: Jay Pritzker, who was part of a First Boston group that 
made a tax-oriented offer.  To quote Yogi Berra; “It was deja vu 
all over again.”

     During most of the time when we normally would have been 
purchasers of RJR, our activities in the stock were restricted 
because of Salomon’s participation in a bidding group.  
Customarily, Charlie and I, though we are directors of Salomon, 
are walled off from information about its merger and acquisition 
work.  We have asked that it be that way: The information would 
do us no good and could, in fact, occasionally inhibit 
Berkshire’s arbitrage operations.

     However, the unusually large commitment that Salomon 
proposed to make in the RJR deal required that all directors be 
fully informed and involved.  Therefore, Berkshire’s purchases of 
RJR were made at only two times: first, in the few days 
immediately following management’s announcement of buyout plans, 