---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2014
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2014ar/2014ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 309 - 1549
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Berkshire’s gain in net worth during 2014 was $18.3 billion, which increased the per-share book value of
both our Class A and Class B stock by 8.3%. Over the last 50 years (that is, since present management took over),
per-share book value has grown from $19 to $146,186, a rate of 19.4% compounded annually.*
During our tenure, we have consistently compared the yearly performance of the S&P 500 to the change in
Berkshire’s per-share book value. We’ve done that because book value has been a crude, but useful, tracking device
for the number that really counts: intrinsic business value.
In our early decades, the relationship between book value and intrinsic value was much closer than it is
now. That was true because Berkshire’s assets were then largely securities whose values were continuously restated
to reflect their current market prices. In Wall Street parlance, most of the assets involved in the calculation of book
value were “marked to market.”
Today, our emphasis has shifted in a major way to owning and operating large businesses. Many of these
are worth far more than their cost-based carrying value. But that amount is never revalued upward no matter how
much the value of these companies has increased. Consequently, the gap between Berkshire’s intrinsic value and its
book value has materially widened.
With that in mind, we have added a new set of data – the historical record of Berkshire’s stock price – to
the performance table on the facing page. Market prices, let me stress, have their limitations in the short term.
Monthly or yearly movements of stocks are often erratic and not indicative of changes in intrinsic value. Over time,
however, stock prices and intrinsic value almost invariably converge. Charlie Munger, Berkshire Vice Chairman
and my partner, and I believe that has been true at Berkshire: In our view, the increase in Berkshire’s per-share
intrinsic value over the past 50 years is roughly equal to the 1,826,163% gain in market price of the company’s
shares.

* All per-share figures used in this report apply to Berkshire’s A shares. Figures for the B shares are 1/1500th of
those shown for A.

3

The Year at Berkshire
It was a good year for Berkshire on all major fronts, except one. Here are the important developments:
‹

Our “Powerhouse Five” – a collection of Berkshire’s largest non-insurance businesses – had a record $12.4
billion of pre-tax earnings in 2014, up $1.6 billion from 2013.* The companies in this sainted group are
Berkshire Hathaway Energy (formerly MidAmerican Energy), BNSF, IMC (I’ve called it Iscar in the past),
Lubrizol and Marmon.
Of the five, only Berkshire Hathaway Energy, then earning $393 million, was owned by us a decade ago.
Subsequently we purchased another three of the five on an all-cash basis. In acquiring the fifth, BNSF, we
paid about 70% of the cost in cash and, for the remainder, issued Berkshire shares that increased the
number outstanding by 6.1%. In other words, the $12 billion gain in annual earnings delivered Berkshire by
the five companies over the ten-year span has been accompanied by only minor dilution. That satisfies our
goal of not simply increasing earnings, but making sure we also increase per-share results.
If the U.S. economy continues to improve in 2015, we expect earnings of our Powerhouse Five to improve
as well. The gain could reach $1 billion, in part because of bolt-on acquisitions by the group that have
already closed or are under contract.

‹

Our bad news from 2014 comes from our group of five as well and is unrelated to earnings. During the
year, BNSF disappointed many of its customers. These shippers depend on us, and service failures can
badly hurt their businesses.
BNSF is, by far, Berkshire’s most important non-insurance subsidiary and, to improve its performance, we
will spend $6 billion on plant and equipment in 2015. That sum is nearly 50% more than any other railroad
has spent in a single year and is a truly extraordinary amount, whether compared to revenues, earnings or
depreciation charges.
Though weather, which was particularly severe last year, will always cause railroads a variety of operating
problems, our responsibility is to do whatever it takes to restore our service to industry-leading levels. That
can’t be done overnight: The extensive work required to increase system capacity sometimes disrupts
operations while it is underway. Recently, however, our outsized expenditures are beginning to show
results. During the last three months, BNSF’s performance metrics have materially improved from last
year’s figures.

‹

Our many dozens of smaller non-insurance businesses earned $5.1 billion last year, up from $4.7 billion in
2013. Here, as with our Powerhouse Five, we expect further gains in 2015. Within this group, we have two
companies that last year earned between $400 million and $600 million, six that earned between $250
million and $400 million, and seven that earned between $100 million and $250 million. This collection of
businesses will increase in both number and earnings. Our ambitions have no finish line.

‹

Berkshire’s huge and growing insurance operation again operated at an underwriting profit in 2014 – that
makes 12 years in a row – and increased its float. During that 12-year stretch, our float – money that
doesn’t belong to us but that we can invest for Berkshire’s benefit – has grown from $41 billion to $84
billion. Though neither that gain nor the size of our float is reflected in Berkshire’s earnings, float
generates significant investment income because of the assets it allows us to hold.

* Throughout this letter, as well as in the “Golden Anniversary” letters included later in this report, all earnings are
stated on a pre-tax basis unless otherwise designated.

4

Meanwhile, our underwriting profit totaled $24 billion during the twelve-year period, including $2.7 billion
earned in 2014. And all of this began with our 1967 purchase of National Indemnity for $8.6 million.
‹

While Charlie and I search for new businesses to buy, our many subsidiaries are regularly making bolt-on
acquisitions. Last year was particularly fruitful: We contracted for 31 bolt-ons, scheduled to cost $7.8
billion in aggregate. The size of these transactions ranged from $400,000 to $2.9 billion. However, the
largest acquisition, Duracell, will not close until the second half of this year. It will then be placed under
Marmon’s jurisdiction.
Charlie and I encourage bolt-ons, if they are sensibly-priced. (Most deals offered us aren’t.) They deploy
capital in activities that fit with our existing businesses and that will be managed by our corps of expert
managers. This means no more work for us, yet more earnings, a combination we find particularly
appealing. We will make many more of these bolt-on deals in future years.

‹

Two years ago my friend, Jorge Paulo Lemann, asked Berkshire to join his 3G Capital group in the
acquisition of Heinz. My affirmative response was a no-brainer: I knew immediately that this partnership
would work well from both a personal and financial standpoint. And it most definitely has.
I’m not embarrassed to admit that Heinz is run far better under Alex Behring, Chairman, and Bernardo
Hees, CEO, than would be the case if I were in charge. They hold themselves to extraordinarily high
performance standards and are never satisfied, even when their results far exceed those of competitors.
We expect to partner with 3G in more activities. Sometimes our participation will only involve a financing
role, as was the case in the recent acquisition of Tim Hortons by Burger King. Our favored arrangement,
however, will usually be to link up as a permanent equity partner (who, in some cases, contributes to the
financing of the deal as well). Whatever the structure, we feel good when working with Jorge Paulo.
Berkshire also has fine partnerships with Mars and Leucadia, and we may form new ones with them or with
other partners. Our participation in any joint activities, whether as a financing or equity partner, will be
limited to friendly transactions.

‹

In October, we contracted to buy Van Tuyl Automotive, a group of 78 automobile dealerships that is
exceptionally well-run. Larry Van Tuyl, the company’s owner, and I met some years ago. He then decided
that if he were ever to sell his company, its home should be Berkshire. Our purchase was recently
completed, and we are now “car guys.”
Larry and his dad, Cecil, spent 62 years building the group, following a strategy that made owner-partners
of all local managers. Creating this mutuality of interests proved over and over to be a winner. Van Tuyl is
now the fifth-largest automotive group in the country, with per-dealership sales figures that are
outstanding.
In recent years, Jeff Rachor has worked alongside Larry, a successful arrangement that will continue. There
are about 17,000 dealerships in the country, and ownership transfers always require approval by the
relevant auto manufacturer. Berkshire’s job is to perform in a manner that will cause manufacturers to