Let’s now look further at Berkshire’s most valuable grove – our collection of non-insurance businesses –
keeping in mind that we do not wish to unnecessarily hand our competitors information that might be useful to them.
Additional details about individual operations can be found on pages K-5 – K-22 and pages K-40 – K-51.
Viewed as a group, these businesses earned pre-tax income in 2018 of $20.8 billion, a 24% increase over
2017. Acquisitions we made in 2018 delivered only a trivial amount of that gain.
I will stick with pre-tax figures in this discussion. But our after-tax gain in 2018 from these businesses was
far greater – 47% – thanks in large part to the cut in the corporate tax rate that became effective at the beginning of
that year. Let’s look at why the impact was so dramatic.
Begin with an economic reality: Like it or not, the U.S. Government “owns” an interest in Berkshire’s
earnings of a size determined by Congress. In effect, our country’s Treasury Department holds a special class of our
stock – call this holding the AA shares – that receives large “dividends” (that is, tax payments) from Berkshire. In
2017, as in many years before, the corporate tax rate was 35%, which meant that the Treasury was doing very well
with its AA shares. Indeed, the Treasury’s “stock,” which was paying nothing when we took over in 1965, had evolved
into a holding that delivered billions of dollars annually to the federal government.
Last year, however, 40% of the government’s “ownership” (14/35ths) was returned to Berkshire – free of
charge – when the corporate tax rate was reduced to 21%. Consequently, our “A” and “B” shareholders received a
major boost in the earnings attributable to their shares.
This happening materially increased the intrinsic value of the Berkshire shares you and I own. The same
dynamic, moreover, enhanced the intrinsic value of almost all of the stocks Berkshire holds.
Those are the headlines. But there are other factors to consider that tempered our gain. For example, the tax
benefits garnered by our large utility operation get passed along to its customers. Meanwhile, the tax rate applicable
to the substantial dividends we receive from domestic corporations is little changed at about 13%. (This lower rate has
long been logical because our investees have already paid tax on the earnings that they pay to us.) Overall, however,
the new law made our businesses and the stocks we own considerably more valuable.
Which suggests that we return to the performance of our non-insurance businesses. Our two towering redwoods
in this grove are BNSF and Berkshire Hathaway Energy (90.9% owned). Combined, they earned $9.3 billion before tax
last year, up 6% from 2017. You can read more about these businesses on pages K-5 – K-10 and pages K-40 – K-45.
Our next five non-insurance subsidiaries, as ranked by earnings (but presented here alphabetically), Clayton
Homes, International Metalworking, Lubrizol, Marmon and Precision Castparts, had aggregate pre-tax income in 2018
of $6.4 billion, up from the $5.5 billion these companies earned in 2017.
The next five, similarly ranked and listed (Forest River, Johns Manville, MiTek, Shaw and TTI) earned $2.4
billion pre-tax last year, up from $2.1 billion in 2017.
The remaining non-insurance businesses that Berkshire owns – and there are many – had pre-tax income of
$3.6 billion in 2018 vs. $3.3 billion in 2017.

8

Insurance, “Float,” and the Funding of Berkshire
Our property/casualty (“P/C”) insurance business – our fifth grove – has been the engine propelling
Berkshire’s growth since 1967, the year we acquired National Indemnity and its sister company, National Fire &
Marine, for $8.6 million. Today, National Indemnity is the largest property/casualty company in the world as measured
by net worth.
One reason we were attracted to the P/C business was the industry’s business model: P/C insurers receive
premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases, such as claims arising from exposure to asbestos, or severe
workplace accidents, payments can stretch over many decades.
This collect-now, pay-later model leaves P/C companies holding large sums – money we call “float” – that
will eventually go to others. Meanwhile, insurers get to invest this float for their own benefit. Though individual
policies and claims come and go, the amount of float an insurer holds usually remains fairly stable in relation to
premium volume. Consequently, as our business grows, so does our float. And how it has grown, as the following
table shows:
Year

Float (in millions)*

1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2018
*

$

39
237
1,632
27,871
65,832
122,732

Includes float arising from life, annuity and health insurance businesses.

We may in time experience a decline in float. If so, the decline will be very gradual – at the outside no more
than 3% in any year. The nature of our insurance contracts is such that we can never be subject to immediate or nearterm demands for sums that are of significance to our cash resources. That structure is by design and is a key
component in the unequaled financial strength of our insurance companies. That strength will never be compromised.
If our premiums exceed the total of our expenses and eventual losses, our insurance operation registers an
underwriting profit that adds to the investment income the float produces. When such a profit is earned, we enjoy the
use of free money – and, better yet, get paid for holding it.
Unfortunately, the wish of all insurers to achieve this happy result creates intense competition, so vigorous
indeed that it sometimes causes the P/C industry as a whole to operate at a significant underwriting loss. That loss, in
effect, is what the industry pays to hold its float. Competitive dynamics almost guarantee that the insurance industry,
despite the float income all its companies enjoy, will continue its dismal record of earning subnormal returns on
tangible net worth as compared to other American businesses.
Nevertheless, I like our own prospects. Berkshire’s unrivaled financial strength allows us far more flexibility
in investing our float than that generally available to P/C companies. The many alternatives available to us are always
an advantage and occasionally offer major opportunities. When other insurers are constrained, our choices expand.
Moreover, our P/C companies have an excellent underwriting record. Berkshire has now operated at an
underwriting profit for 15 of the past 16 years, the exception being 2017, when our pre-tax loss was $3.2 billion. For
the entire 16-year span, our pre-tax gain totaled $27 billion, of which $2 billion was recorded in 2018.

9

That record is no accident: Disciplined risk evaluation is the daily focus of our insurance managers, who
know that the benefits of float can be drowned by poor underwriting results. All insurers give that message lip service.
At Berkshire it is a religion, Old Testament style.
************
In most cases, the funding of a business comes from two sources – debt and equity. At Berkshire, we have
two additional arrows in the quiver to talk about, but let’s first address the conventional components.
We use debt sparingly. Many managers, it should be noted, will disagree with this policy, arguing that
significant debt juices the returns for equity owners. And these more venturesome CEOs will be right most of the time.
At rare and unpredictable intervals, however, credit vanishes and debt becomes financially fatal. A Russianroulette equation – usually win, occasionally die – may make financial sense for someone who gets a piece of a
company’s upside but does not share in its downside. But that strategy would be madness for Berkshire. Rational
people don’t risk what they have and need for what they don’t have and don’t need.
Most of the debt you see on our consolidated balance sheet – see page K-65 – resides at our railroad and
energy subsidiaries, both of them asset-heavy companies. During recessions, the cash generation of these businesses
remains bountiful. The debt they use is both appropriate for their operations and not guaranteed by Berkshire.
Our level of equity capital is a different story: Berkshire’s $349 billion is unmatched in corporate America. By
retaining all earnings for a very long time, and allowing compound interest to work its magic, we have amassed funds
that have enabled us to purchase and develop the valuable groves earlier described. Had we instead followed a 100%
payout policy, we would still be working with the $22 million with which we began fiscal 1965.
Beyond using debt and equity, Berkshire has benefitted in a major way from two less-common sources of
corporate funding. The larger is the float I have described. So far, those funds, though they are recorded as a huge net
liability on our balance sheet, have been of more utility to us than an equivalent amount of equity. That’s because they
have usually been accompanied by underwriting earnings. In effect, we have been paid in most years for holding and
using other people’s money.
As I have often done before, I will emphasize that this happy outcome is far from a sure thing: Mistakes in