# Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letter 1996

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
Chairman's Letter
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Our gain in net worth during 1996 was $6.2 billion, or 36.1%.  Per-
share book value, however, grew by less, 31.8%, because the number of 
Berkshire shares increased:  We issued stock in acquiring FlightSafety 
International and also sold new Class B shares.*   Over the last 32 years 
(that is, since present management took over) per-share book value has 
grown from $19 to $19,011, or at a rate of 23.8% compounded annually.
* Each Class B share has an economic interest equal to 1/30th of 
   that possessed by a Class A share, which is the new designation for  
   the only stock that Berkshire had outstanding before May 1996.  
   Throughout this report, we state all per-share figures in terms of
   "Class A equivalents," which are the sum of the Class A shares 
   outstanding and 1/30th of the Class B shares outstanding.
For technical reasons, we have restated our 1995 financial 
statements, a matter that requires me to present one of my less-than-
thrilling explanations of accounting arcana.  I'll make it brief.

     The restatement was required because GEICO became a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Berkshire on January 2, 1996, whereas it was previously 
classified as an investment.  From an economic viewpoint - taking into 
account major tax efficiencies and other benefits we gained - the value 
of the 51% of GEICO we owned at year-end 1995
increased
significantly 
when we acquired the remaining 49% of the company two days later.  
Accounting rules applicable to this type of "step acquisition," however, 
required us to
write down
the value of our 51% at the time we moved to 
100%.  That writedown - which also, of course, reduced book value - 
amounted to $478.4 million.  As a result, we now carry our original 51% 
of GEICO at a value that is both lower than its market value at the time 
we purchased the remaining 49% of the company and lower than the value at 
which we carry that 49% itself.

     There is an offset, however, to the reduction in book value I have 
just described:  Twice during 1996 we issued Berkshire shares at a 
premium to book value, first in May when we sold the B shares for cash 
and again in December when we used both A and B shares as part-payment 
for FlightSafety.  In total, the three non-operational items affecting 
book value contributed less than one percentage point to our 31.8% per-
share gain last year.

     I dwell on this rise in per-share book value because it roughly 
indicates our economic progress during the year.  But, as Charlie Munger, 
Berkshire's Vice Chairman, and I have repeatedly told you, what counts at 
Berkshire is intrinsic value, not book value.  The last time you got that 
message from us was in the Owner's Manual, sent to you in June after we 
issued the Class B shares.  In that manual, we not only defined certain 
key terms - such as intrinsic value -  but also set forth our economic 
principles.

     For many years, we have listed these principles in the front of our 
annual report, but in this report, on pages 58 to 67, we reproduce the 
entire Owner's Manual.  In this letter, we will occasionally refer to the 
manual so that we can avoid repeating certain definitions and 
explanations.  For example, if you wish to brush up on "intrinsic value," 
see pages 64 and 65.

     Last year, for the first time, we supplied you with a table that 
Charlie and I believe will help anyone trying to estimate Berkshire's 
intrinsic value.  In the updated version of that table, which follows, we 
trace two key indices of value.  The first column lists our per-share 
ownership of investments (including cash and equivalents) and the second 
column shows our per-share earnings from Berkshire's operating businesses 
before taxes and purchase-accounting adjustments but after all interest 
and corporate overhead expenses.  The operating-earnings column excludes
all dividends, interest and capital gains that we realized from the 
investments presented in the first column.  In effect, the two columns 
show what Berkshire would have reported had it been broken into two parts.


		                                 Pre-tax Earnings Per Share
	                           Investments   Excluding All Income from
Year	                            Per Share           Investments        
----                               -----------   -------------------------
1965................................$       4	        $      4.08
1975................................	  159	              (6.48)
1985................................	2,443	              18.86
1995................................   22,088	             258.20
1996................................   28,500	             421.39

Annual Growth Rate, 1965-95.........	33.4%	              14.7% 
One-Year Growth Rate, 1995-96 ......	29.0%	              63.2% 


     As the table tells you, our investments per share increased in 1996 
by 29.0% and our non-investment earnings grew by 63.2%.  Our goal is to 
keep the numbers in both columns moving ahead at a reasonable (or, better 
yet, unreasonable) pace.

     Our expectations, however, are tempered by two realities.  First, 
our past rates of growth cannot be matched nor even approached:  
Berkshire's equity capital is now large - in fact, fewer than ten 
businesses in America have capital larger -  and an abundance of funds 
tends to dampen returns.  Second, whatever our rate of progress, it will 
not be smooth:  Year-to-year moves in the first column of the table above 
will be influenced in a major way by fluctuations in securities markets; 
the figures in the second column will be affected by wide swings in the 
profitability of our catastrophe-reinsurance business.

     In the table, the donations made pursuant to our shareholder-
designated contributions program are charged against the second column, 
though we view them as a shareholder benefit rather than as an expense.  
All other corporate expenses are also charged against the second column. 
These costs may be lower than those of any other large American 
corporation:  Our after-tax headquarters expense amounts to less than two 
basis points (1/50th of 1%) measured against net worth.  Even so, Charlie 
used to think this expense percentage outrageously high, blaming it on my 
use of Berkshire's corporate jet,
The Indefensible
.  But Charlie has 
recently experienced a "counter-revelation":  With our purchase of 
FlightSafety, whose major activity is the training of corporate pilots, 
he now rhapsodizes at the mere mention of jets.

     Seriously, costs matter.  For example, equity mutual funds incur 
corporate expenses - largely payments to the funds' managers - that 
average about 100 basis points, a levy likely to cut the returns their 
investors earn by 10% or more over time.  Charlie and I make no promises 
about Berkshire's results.  We do promise you, however, that virtually 
all of the gains Berkshire makes will end up with shareholders.  We are 
here to make money with you, not off you.
The Relationship of Intrinsic Value to Market Price
In last year's letter, with Berkshire shares selling at $36,000, I 
told you:  (1) Berkshire's gain in market value in recent years had 
outstripped its gain in intrinsic value, even though the latter gain had 
been highly satisfactory; (2) that kind of overperformance could not 
continue indefinitely; (3) Charlie and I did not at that moment consider 
Berkshire to be undervalued.

     Since I set down those cautions, Berkshire's intrinsic value has 
increased very significantly - aided in a major way by a stunning 
performance at GEICO that I will tell you more about later - while the 
market price of our shares has changed little.  This, of course, means 
that in 1996 Berkshire's stock underperformed the business.  
Consequently, today's price/value relationship is both much different 
from what it was a year ago and, as Charlie and I see it, more 
appropriate.

     Over time, the aggregate gains made by Berkshire shareholders must 
of necessity match the business gains of the company.  When the stock 
temporarily overperforms or underperforms the business, a limited number 
of shareholders - either sellers or buyers - receive outsized benefits at 
the expense of those they trade with.  Generally, the sophisticated have 
an edge over the innocents in this game.

     Though our primary goal is to maximize the amount that our 
shareholders, in total, reap from their ownership of Berkshire, we wish 
also to minimize the benefits going to some shareholders at the expense 
of others.  These are goals we would have were we managing a family 
partnership, and we believe they make equal sense for the manager of a 
public company.  In a partnership, fairness requires that partnership 
interests be valued equitably when partners enter or exit; in a public 
company, fairness prevails when market price and intrinsic value are in 
sync.  Obviously, they won't always meet that ideal, but a manager - by 
his policies and communications - can do much to foster equity.

     Of course, the longer a shareholder holds his shares, the more 
bearing Berkshire's business results will have on his financial 
experience - and the less it will matter what premium or discount to 
intrinsic value prevails when he buys and sells his stock.  That's one 
reason we hope to attract owners with long-term horizons.  Overall, I 
think we have succeeded in that pursuit.  Berkshire probably ranks number 
one among large American corporations in the percentage of its shares 
held by owners with a long-term view.
Acquisitions of 1996