Contributions made through the program were $4.9 million, and 
2,050 charities were recipients. 

     A recent survey reported that about 50% of major American 
companies match charitable contributions made by directors 
(sometimes by a factor of three to one).  In effect, these 
representatives of the owners direct funds to their favorite 
charities, and never consult the owners as to their charitable 
preferences. (I wonder how they would feel if the process were 
reversed and shareholders could invade the directors' pockets for 
charities favored by the shareholders.) When A takes money from B 
to give to C and A is a legislator, the process is called 
taxation.  But when A is an officer or director of a corporation, 
it is called philanthropy.  We continue to believe that 
contributions, aside from those with quite clear direct benefits 
to the company, should reflect the charitable preferences of 
owners rather than those of officers and directors. 

     We urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
pages 54 and 55.  If you wish to participate in future programs, 
we strongly urge that you immediately make sure your shares are 
registered in the name of the actual owner, not in "street" name 
or nominee name.  Shares not so registered on September 30, l988 
will be ineligible for the 1988 program. 
 
                          *  *  * 

     Last year we again had about 450 shareholders at our annual 
meeting.  The 60 or so questions they asked were, as always, 
excellent.  At many companies, the annual meeting is a waste of 
time because exhibitionists turn it into a sideshow.  Ours, 
however, is different.  It is informative for shareholders and 
fun for us. (At Berkshire's meetings, the exhibitionists are on 
the dais.) 

     This year our meeting will be on May 23, 1988 in Omaha, and 
we hope that you come.  The meeting provides the forum for you to 
ask any owner-related questions you may have, and we will keep 
answering until all (except those dealing with portfolio 
activities or other proprietary information) have been dealt 
with. 

     Last year we rented two buses - for $100 - to take 
shareholders interested in the trip to the Furniture Mart.  Your 
actions demonstrated your good judgment: You snapped up about 
$40,000 of bargains.  Mrs. B regards this expense/sales ratio as 
on the high side and attributes it to my chronic inattention to 
costs and generally sloppy managerial practices.  But, gracious 
as always, she has offered me another chance and we will again 
have buses available following the meeting.  Mrs. B says you must 
beat last year's sales figures, and I have told her she won't be 
disappointed. 

 
 
                                          Warren E. Buffett 
February 29, 1988                         Chairman of the Board
