returning us about 70% of face value. Through this investment, we indirectly reduced our purchase price for the
whole company by a small amount.
In late 2000, we began purchasing the obligations of FINOVA Group, a troubled finance company, and
that, too, led to our making a major transaction. FINOVA then had about $11 billion of debt outstanding, of which
we purchased 13% at about two-thirds of face value. We expected the company to go into bankruptcy, but believed
that liquidation of its assets would produce a payoff for creditors that would be well above our cost. As default
loomed in early 2001, we joined forces with Leucadia National Corporation to present the company with a
prepackaged plan for bankruptcy.
The plan as subsequently modified (and I’m simplifying here) provided that creditors would be paid 70%
of face value (along with full interest) and that they would receive a newly-issued 7½% note for the 30% of their
claims not satisfied by cash. To fund FINOVA’s 70% distribution, Leucadia and Berkshire formed a jointly-owned
entity – mellifluently christened Berkadia – that borrowed $5.6 billion through FleetBoston and, in turn, re-lent this
sum to FINOVA, concurrently obtaining a priority claim on its assets. Berkshire guaranteed 90% of the Berkadia
borrowing and also has a secondary guarantee on the 10% for which Leucadia has primary responsibility. (Did I
mention that I am simplifying?).

15

There is a spread of about two percentage points between what Berkadia pays on its borrowing and what it
receives from FINOVA, with this spread flowing 90% to Berkshire and 10% to Leucadia. As I write this, each loan
has been paid down to $3.9 billion.
As part of the bankruptcy plan, which was approved on August 10, 2001, Berkshire also agreed to offer
70% of face value for up to $500 million principal amount of the $3.25 billion of new 7½% bonds that were issued
by FINOVA. (Of these, we had already received $426.8 million in principal amount because of our 13% ownership
of the original debt.) Our offer, which was to run until September 26, 2001, could be withdrawn under a variety of
conditions, one of which became operative if the New York Stock Exchange closed during the offering period.
When that indeed occurred in the week of September 11th, we promptly terminated the offer.
Many of FINOVA’s loans involve aircraft assets whose values were significantly diminished by the events
of September 11th. Other receivables held by the company also were imperiled by the economic consequences of
the attack that day. FINOVA’s prospects, therefore, are not as good as when we made our proposal to the
bankruptcy court. Nevertheless we feel that overall the transaction will prove satisfactory for Berkshire. Leucadia
has day-to-day operating responsibility for FINOVA, and we have long been impressed with the business acumen
and managerial talent of its key executives.
************
It’s déjà vu time again: In early 1965, when the investment partnership I ran took control of Berkshire, that
company had its main banking relationships with First National Bank of Boston and a large New York City bank.
Previously, I had done no business with either.
Fast forward to 1969, when I wanted Berkshire to buy the Illinois National Bank and Trust of Rockford.
We needed $10 million, and I contacted both banks. There was no response from New York. However, two
representatives of the Boston bank immediately came to Omaha. They told me they would supply the money for
our purchase and that we would work out the details later.
For the next three decades, we borrowed almost nothing from banks. (Debt is a four-letter word around
Berkshire.) Then, in February, when we were structuring the FINOVA transaction, I again called Boston, where
First National had morphed into FleetBoston. Chad Gifford, the company’s president, responded just as Bill Brown
and Ira Stepanian had back in 1969 – “you’ve got the money and we’ll work out the details later.”
And that’s just what happened. FleetBoston syndicated a loan for $6 billion (as it turned out, we didn’t
need $400 million of it), and it was quickly oversubscribed by 17 banks throughout the world. Sooooo . . . if you
ever need $6 billion, just give Chad a call – assuming, that is, your credit is AAA.
************
One more point about our investments: The media often report that “Buffett is buying” this or that security,
having picked up the “fact” from reports that Berkshire files. These accounts are sometimes correct, but at other
times the transactions Berkshire reports are actually being made by Lou Simpson, who runs a $2 billion portfolio for
GEICO that is quite independent of me. Normally, Lou does not tell me what he is buying or selling, and I learn of
his activities only when I look at a GEICO portfolio summary that I receive a few days after the end of each month.
Lou’s thinking, of course, is quite similar to mine, but we usually end up in different securities. That’s largely
because he’s working with less money and can therefore invest in smaller companies than I. Oh, yes, there’s also
another minor difference between us: In recent years, Lou’s performance has been far better than mine.

16

Charitable Contributions
Berkshire follows a highly unusual policy in respect to charitable contributions – but it’s one that Charlie
and I believe is both rational and fair to owners.
First, we let our operating subsidiaries make their own charitable decisions, requesting only that the
owners/managers who once ran these as independent companies make all donations to their personal charities from
their own funds, instead of using company money. When our managers are using company funds, we trust them to
make gifts in a manner that delivers commensurate tangible or intangible benefits to the operations they manage.
Last year contributions from Berkshire subsidiaries totaled $19.2 million.
At the parent company level, we make no contributions except those designated by shareholders. We do
not match contributions made by directors or employees, nor do we give to the favorite charities of the Buffetts or
the Mungers. However, prior to our purchasing them, a few of our subsidiaries had employee-match programs and
we feel fine about their continuing them: It’s not our style to tamper with successful business cultures.
To implement our owners’ charitable desires, each year we notify registered holders of A shares (A’s
represent 86.6% of our equity capital) of a per-share amount that they can instruct us to contribute to as many as
three charities. Shareholders name the charity; Berkshire writes the check. Any organization that qualifies under
the Internal Revenue Code can be designated by shareholders. Last year Berkshire made contributions of $16.7
million at the direction of 5,700 shareholders, who named 3,550 charities as recipients. Since we started this
program, our shareholders’ gifts have totaled $181 million.
Most public corporations eschew gifts to religious institutions. These, however, are favorite charities of
our shareholders, who last year named 437 churches and synagogues to receive gifts. Additionally, 790 schools
were recipients. A few of our larger shareholders, including Charlie and me, designate their personal foundations to
get gifts, so that those entities can, in turn, disburse their funds widely.
I get a few letters every week criticizing Berkshire for contributing to Planned Parenthood. These letters
are usually prompted by an organization that wishes to see boycotts of Berkshire products. The letters are
invariably polite and sincere, but their writers are unaware of a key point: It’s not Berkshire, but rather its owners
who are making charitable decisions – and these owners are about as diverse in their opinions as you can imagine.
For example, they are probably on both sides of the abortion issue in roughly the same proportion as the American
population. We’ll follow their instructions, whether they designate Planned Parenthood or Metro Right to Life, just
as long as the charity possesses 501(c)(3) status. It’s as if we paid a dividend, which the shareholder then donated.
Our form of disbursement, however, is more tax-efficient.
In neither the purchase of goods nor the hiring of personnel, do we ever consider the religious views, the
gender, the race or the sexual orientation of the persons we are dealing with. It would not only be wrong to do so, it
would be idiotic. We need all of the talent we can find, and we have learned that able and trustworthy managers,
employees and suppliers come from a very wide spectrum of humanity.
***********
To participate in our future charitable contribution programs, you must own Class A shares that are
registered in the name of the actual owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not so
registered on August 31, 2002 will be ineligible for the 2002 program. When you get the contributions form from
us, return it promptly. Designations received after the due date will not be honored.

17

The Annual Meeting
This year’s annual meeting will be on Saturday, May 4, and we will again be at the Civic Auditorium. The