(This is not Donald Trump’s sort of place.) NICO is not labor-intensive, and, as the table suggests, can live
with excess overhead. It can’t live, however, with underpriced business and the breakdown in underwriting
discipline that accompanies it. An insurance organization that doesn’t care deeply about underwriting at a
profit this year is unlikely to care next year either.
Naturally, a business that follows a no-layoff policy must be especially careful to avoid
overstaffing when times are good. Thirty years ago Tom Murphy, then CEO of Cap Cities, drove this point
home to me with a hypothetical tale about an employee who asked his boss for permission to hire an
assistant. The employee assumed that adding $20,000 to the annual payroll would be inconsequential. But
his boss told him the proposal should be evaluated as a $3 million decision, given that an additional person
would probably cost at least that amount over his lifetime, factoring in raises, benefits and other expenses
(more people, more toilet paper). And unless the company fell on very hard times, the employee added
would be unlikely to be dismissed, however marginal his contribution to the business.
It takes real fortitude – embedded deep within a company’s culture – to operate as NICO does.
Anyone examining the table can scan the years from 1986 to 1999 quickly. But living day after day with
dwindling volume – while competitors are boasting of growth and reaping Wall Street’s applause – is an
experience few managers can tolerate. NICO, however, has had four CEOs since its formation in 1940 and
none have bent. (It should be noted that only one of the four graduated from college. Our experience tells
us that extraordinary business ability is largely innate.)
The current managerial star – make that superstar – at NICO is Don Wurster (yes, he’s “the
graduate”), who has been running things since 1989. His slugging percentage is right up there with Barry
Bonds’ because, like Barry, Don will accept a walk rather than swing at a bad pitch. Don has now amassed
$950 million of float at NICO that over time is almost certain to be proved the negative-cost kind. Because
insurance prices are falling, Don’s volume will soon decline very significantly and, as it does, Charlie and I
will applaud him ever more loudly.
************
Another way to prosper in a commodity-type business is to be the low-cost operator. Among auto
insurers operating on a broad scale, GEICO holds that cherished title. For NICO, as we have seen, an ebband-flow business model makes sense. But a company holding a low-cost advantage must pursue an
unrelenting foot-to-the-floor strategy. And that’s just what we do at GEICO.
A century ago, when autos first appeared, the property-casualty industry operated as a cartel. The
major companies, most of which were based in the Northeast, established “bureau” rates and that was it.
No one cut prices to attract business. Instead, insurers competed for strong, well-regarded agents, a focus
that produced high commissions for agents and high prices for consumers.
In 1922, State Farm was formed by George Mecherle, a farmer from Merna, Illinois, who aimed to
take advantage of the pricing umbrella maintained by the high-cost giants of the industry. State Farm
employed a “captive” agency force, a system keeping its acquisition costs lower than those incurred by the
bureau insurers (whose “independent” agents successfully played off one company against another). With
its low-cost structure, State Farm eventually captured about 25% of the personal lines (auto and
homeowners) business, far outdistancing its once-mighty competitors. Allstate, formed in 1931, put a
similar distribution system into place and soon became the runner-up in personal lines to State Farm.
Capitalism had worked its magic, and these low-cost operations looked unstoppable.

8

But a man named Leo Goodwin had an idea for an even more efficient auto insurer and, with a
skimpy $200,000, started GEICO in 1936. Goodwin’s plan was to eliminate the agent entirely and to deal
instead directly with the auto owner. Why, he asked himself, should there be any unnecessary and
expensive links in the distribution mechanism when the product, auto insurance, was both mandatory and
costly. Purchasers of business insurance, he reasoned, might well require professional advice, but most
consumers knew what they needed in an auto policy. That was a powerful insight.
Originally, GEICO mailed its low-cost message to a limited audience of government employees.
Later, it widened its horizons and shifted its marketing emphasis to the phone, working inquiries that came
from broadcast and print advertising. And today the Internet is coming on strong.
Between 1936 and 1975, GEICO grew from a standing start to a 4% market share, becoming the
country’s fourth largest auto insurer. During most of this period, the company was superbly managed,
achieving both excellent volume gains and high profits. It looked unstoppable. But after my friend and
hero Lorimer Davidson retired as CEO in 1970, his successors soon made a huge mistake by underreserving for losses. This produced faulty cost information, which in turn produced inadequate pricing. By
1976, GEICO was on the brink of failure.
Jack Byrne then joined GEICO as CEO and, almost single-handedly, saved the company by heroic
efforts that included major price increases. Though GEICO’s survival required these, policyholders fled
the company, and by 1980 its market share had fallen to 1.8%. Subsequently, the company embarked on
some unwise diversification moves. This shift of emphasis away from its extraordinary core business
stunted GEICO’s growth, and by 1993 its market share had grown only fractionally, to 1.9%. Then Tony
Nicely took charge.
And what a difference that’s made: In 2005 GEICO will probably secure a 6% market share.
Better yet, Tony has matched growth with profitability. Indeed, GEICO delivers all of its constituents
major benefits: In 2004 its customers saved $1 billion or so compared to what they would otherwise have
paid for coverage, its associates earned a $191 million profit-sharing bonus that averaged 24.3% of salary,
and its owner – that’s us – enjoyed excellent financial returns.
There’s more good news. When Jack Byrne was rescuing the company in 1976, New Jersey
refused to grant him the rates he needed to operate profitably. He therefore promptly – and properly –
withdrew from the state. Subsequently, GEICO avoided both New Jersey and Massachusetts, recognizing
them as two jurisdictions in which insurers were destined to struggle.
In 2003, however, New Jersey took a new look at its chronic auto-insurance problems and enacted
legislation that would curb fraud and allow insurers a fair playing field. Even so, one might have expected
the state’s bureaucracy to make change slow and difficult.
But just the opposite occurred. Holly Bakke, the New Jersey insurance commissioner, who would
be a success in any line of work, was determined to turn the law’s intent into reality. With her staff’s
cooperation, GEICO ironed out the details for re-entering the state and was licensed last August. Since
then, we’ve received a response from New Jersey drivers that is multiples of my expectations.
We are now serving 140,000 policyholders – about 4% of the New Jersey market – and saving
them substantial sums (as we do drivers everywhere). Word-of-mouth recommendations within the state
are causing inquiries to pour in. And once we hear from a New Jersey prospect, our closure rate – the
percentage of policies issued to inquiries received – is far higher in the state than it is nationally.
We make no claim, of course, that we can save everyone money. Some companies, using rating
systems that are different from ours, will offer certain classes of drivers a lower rate than we do. But we
believe GEICO offers the lowest price more often than any other national company that serves all segments
of the public. In addition, in most states, including New Jersey, Berkshire shareholders receive an 8%
discount. So gamble fifteen minutes of your time and go to GEICO.com – or call 800-847-7536 – to see

9

whether you can save big money (which you might want to use, of course, to buy other Berkshire
products).
************
Reinsurance – insurance sold to other insurers who wish to lay off part of the risks they have
assumed – should not be a commodity product. At bottom, any insurance policy is simply a promise, and
as everyone knows, promises vary enormously in their quality.
At the primary insurance level, nevertheless, just who makes the promise is often of minor
importance. In personal-lines insurance, for example, states levy assessments on solvent companies to pay
the policyholders of companies that go broke. In the business-insurance field, the same arrangement
applies to workers’ compensation policies. “Protected” policies of these types account for about 60% of
the property-casualty industry’s volume. Prudently-run insurers are irritated by the need to subsidize poor
or reckless management elsewhere, but that’s the way it is.
Other forms of business insurance at the primary level involve promises that carry greater risks for
the insured. When Reliance Insurance and Home Insurance were run into the ground, for example, their