talented and likeable managers.  If we make a mistake about the 
managers we link up with, the controlled company offers a certain 
advantage because we have the power to effect change.  In 
practice, however, this advantage is somewhat illusory: 
Management changes, like marital changes, are painful, time-
consuming and chancy.  In any event, at our three marketable-but 
permanent holdings, this point is moot:  With Tom Murphy and Dan 
Burke at Cap Cities, Bill Snyder and Lou Simpson at GEICO, and 
Kay Graham and Dick Simmons at The Washington Post, we simply 
couldn't be in better hands. 

     I would say that the controlled company offers two main 
advantages.  First, when we control a company we get to allocate 
capital, whereas we are likely to have little or nothing to say 
about this process with marketable holdings.  This point can be 
important because the heads of many companies are not skilled in 
capital allocation.  Their inadequacy is not surprising.  Most 
bosses rise to the top because they have excelled in an area such 
as marketing, production, engineering, administration or, 
sometimes, institutional politics. 

     Once they become CEOs, they face new responsibilities.  They 
now must make capital allocation decisions, a critical job that 
they may have never tackled and that is not easily mastered.  To 
stretch the point, it's as if the final step for a highly-
talented musician was not to perform at Carnegie Hall but, 
instead, to be named Chairman of the Federal Reserve. 

     The lack of skill that many CEOs have at capital allocation 
is no small matter: After ten years on the job, a CEO whose 
company annually retains earnings equal to 10% of net worth will 
have been responsible for the deployment of more than 60% of all 
the capital at work in the business. 

     CEOs who recognize their lack of capital-allocation skills 
(which not all do) will often try to compensate by turning to 
their staffs, management consultants, or investment bankers.  
Charlie and I have frequently observed the consequences of such 
"help." On balance, we feel it is more likely to accentuate the 
capital-allocation problem than to solve it. 

     In the end, plenty of unintelligent capital allocation takes 
place in corporate America. (That's why you hear so much about 
"restructuring.") Berkshire, however, has been fortunate.  At the 
companies that are our major non-controlled holdings, capital has 
generally been well-deployed and, in some cases, brilliantly so. 

     The second advantage of a controlled company over a 
marketable security has to do with taxes.  Berkshire, as a 
corporate holder, absorbs some significant tax costs through the 
ownership of partial positions that we do not when our ownership 
is 80%, or greater.  Such tax disadvantages have long been with 
us, but changes in the tax code caused them to increase 
significantly during the past year.  As a consequence, a given 
business result can now deliver Berkshire financial results that 
are as much as 50% better if they come from an 80%-or-greater 
holding rather than from a lesser holding. 

     The disadvantages of owning marketable securities are 
sometimes offset by a huge advantage:  Occasionally the stock 
market offers us the chance to buy non-controlling pieces of 
extraordinary businesses at truly ridiculous prices - 
dramatically below those commanded in negotiated transactions 
that transfer control.  For example, we purchased our Washington 
Post stock in 1973 at $5.63 per share, and per-share operating 
earnings in 1987 after taxes were $10.30.  Similarly, Our GEICO 
stock was purchased in 1976, 1979 and 1980 at an average of $6.67 
per share, and after-tax operating earnings per share last year 
were $9.01. In cases such as these, Mr. Market has proven to be a 
mighty good friend. 
 
     An interesting accounting irony overlays a comparison of the 
reported financial results of our controlled companies with those 
of the permanent minority holdings listed above.  As you can see, 
those three stocks have a market value of over $2 billion.  Yet 
they produced only $11 million in reported after-tax earnings for 
Berkshire in 1987. 

     Accounting rules dictate that we take into income only the 
dividends these companies pay us - which are little more than 
nominal - rather than our share of their earnings, which in 1987 
amounted to well over $100 million.  On the other hand, 
accounting rules provide that the carrying value of these three 
holdings - owned, as they are, by insurance companies - must be 
recorded on our balance sheet at current market prices.  The 
result: GAAP accounting lets us reflect in our net worth the up-
to-date underlying values of the businesses we partially own, but 
does not let us reflect their underlying earnings in our income 
account. 

     In the case of our controlled companies, just the opposite 
is true.  Here, we show full earnings in our income account but 
never change asset values on our balance sheet, no matter how 
much the value of a business might have increased since we 
purchased it. 

     Our mental approach to this accounting schizophrenia is to 
ignore GAAP figures and to focus solely on the future earning 
power of both our controlled and non-controlled businesses.  
Using this approach, we establish our own ideas of business 
value, keeping these independent from both the accounting values 
shown on our books for controlled companies and the values placed 
by a sometimes foolish market on our partially-owned companies.  
It is this business value that we hope to increase at a 
reasonable (or, preferably, unreasonable) rate in the years 
ahead.
Marketable Securities - Other
In addition to our three permanent common stock holdings, we 
hold large quantities of marketable securities in our insurance 
companies.  In selecting these, we can choose among five major 
categories: (1) long-term common stock investments, (2) medium-
term fixed-income securities, (3) long-term fixed income 
securities, (4) short-term cash equivalents, and (5) short-term 
arbitrage commitments. 

     We have no particular bias when it comes to choosing from 
these categories.  We just continuously search among them for the 
highest after-tax returns as measured by "mathematical 
expectation," limiting ourselves always to investment 
alternatives we think we understand.  Our criteria have nothing 
to do with maximizing immediately reportable earnings; our goal, 
rather, is to maximize eventual net worth.
o
Let's look first at common stocks.  During 1987 the stock 
market was an area of much excitement but little net movement: 
The Dow advanced 2.3% for the year.  You are aware, of course, of 
the roller coaster ride that produced this minor change.  Mr. 
Market was on a manic rampage until October and then experienced 
a sudden, massive seizure. 

     We have "professional" investors, those who manage many 
billions, to thank for most of this turmoil.  Instead of focusing 
on what businesses will do in the years ahead, many prestigious 
money managers now focus on what they expect other money managers 
to do in the days ahead.  For them, stocks are merely tokens in a 
game, like the thimble and flatiron in Monopoly. 
 
     An extreme example of what their attitude leads to is 
"portfolio insurance," a money-management strategy that many 
leading investment advisors embraced in 1986-1987.  This strategy 
- which is simply an exotically-labeled version of the small 
speculator's stop-loss order dictates that ever increasing 
portions of a stock portfolio, or their index-future equivalents, 
be sold as prices decline.  The strategy says nothing else 
matters: A downtick of a given magnitude automatically produces a 
huge sell order.  According to the Brady Report, $60 billion to 
$90 billion of equities were poised on this hair trigger in mid-
October of 1987. 
 
     If you've thought that investment advisors were hired to 
invest, you may be bewildered by this technique.  After buying a 
farm, would a rational owner next order his real estate agent to 
start selling off pieces of it whenever a neighboring property 
was sold at a lower price?  Or would you sell your house to 
whatever bidder was available at 9:31 on some morning merely 
because at 9:30 a similar house sold for less than it would have 
brought on the previous day? 
 
     Moves like that, however, are what portfolio insurance tells 
a pension fund or university to make when it owns a portion of 
enterprises such as Ford or General Electric.  The less these 
companies are being valued at, says this approach, the more 
vigorously they should be sold.  As a "logical" corollary, the 
approach commands the institutions to repurchase these companies 
-
I'm not making this up
- once their prices have rebounded 
significantly.  Considering that huge sums are controlled by 
managers following such Alice-in-Wonderland practices, is it any 
surprise that markets sometimes behave in aberrational fashion? 

     Many commentators, however, have drawn an incorrect 
conclusion upon observing recent events: They are fond of saying 
that the small investor has no chance in a market now dominated 
by the erratic behavior of the big boys.  This conclusion is dead 
wrong: Such markets are ideal for any investor - small or large - 
so long as he sticks to his investment knitting.  Volatility 
caused by money managers who speculate irrationally with huge 
sums will offer the true investor more chances to make 