In June 1996, Berkshire’s Chairman, Warren E. Buffett, issued a booklet entitled “An Owner’s Manual*” to Berkshire’s Class A and
Class B shareholders. The purpose of the manual was to explain Berkshire’s broad economic principles of operation. An updated
version is reproduced on this and the following pages.
OWNER-RELATED BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
At the time of the Blue Chip merger in 1983, I set down 13 owner-related business principles that I thought would help new
shareholders understand our managerial approach. As is appropriate for “principles,” all 13 remain alive and well today, and they are
stated here in italics.
1.
Although our form is corporate, our attitude is partnership. Charlie Munger and I think of our shareholders as ownerpartners, and of ourselves as managing partners. (Because of the size of our shareholdings we are also, for better or worse,
controlling partners.) We do not view the company itself as the ultimate owner of our business assets but instead view the
company as a conduit through which our shareholders own the assets.
Charlie and I hope that you do not think of yourself as merely owning a piece of paper whose price wiggles around daily and
that is a candidate for sale when some economic or political event makes you nervous. We hope you instead visualize yourself
as a part owner of a business that you expect to stay with indefinitely, much as you might if you owned a farm or apartment
house in partnership with members of your family. For our part, we do not view Berkshire shareholders as faceless members
of an ever-shifting crowd, but rather as co-venturers who have entrusted their funds to us for what may well turn out to be the
remainder of their lives.
The evidence suggests that most Berkshire shareholders have indeed embraced this long-term partnership concept. The annual
percentage turnover in Berkshire’s shares is a fraction of that occurring in the stocks of other major American corporations,
even when the shares I own are excluded from the calculation.
In effect, our shareholders behave in respect to their Berkshire stock much as Berkshire itself behaves in respect to companies
in which it has an investment. As owners of, say, Coca-Cola or American Express shares, we think of Berkshire as being a
non-managing partner in two extraordinary businesses, in which we measure our success by the long-term progress of the
companies rather than by the month-to-month movements of their stocks. In fact, we would not care in the least if several
years went by in which there was no trading, or quotation of prices, in the stocks of those companies. If we have good longterm expectations, short-term price changes are meaningless for us except to the extent they offer us an opportunity to
increase our ownership at an attractive price.
2.
In line with Berkshire’s owner-orientation, most of our directors have a significant portion of their net worth invested in the
company. We eat our own cooking.
Charlie’s family has the majority of its net worth in Berkshire shares; I have more than 98%. In addition, many of my relatives
– my sisters and cousins, for example – keep a huge portion of their net worth in Berkshire stock.
Charlie and I feel totally comfortable with this eggs-in-one-basket situation because Berkshire itself owns a wide variety of
truly extraordinary businesses. Indeed, we believe that Berkshire is close to being unique in the quality and diversity of the
businesses in which it owns either a controlling interest or a minority interest of significance.
Charlie and I cannot promise you results. But we can guarantee that your financial fortunes will move in lockstep with ours
for whatever period of time you elect to be our partner. We have no interest in large salaries or options or other means of
gaining an “edge” over you. We want to make money only when our partners do and in exactly the same proportion.
Moreover, when I do something dumb, I want you to be able to derive some solace from the fact that my financial suffering is
proportional to yours.
3.
Our long-term economic goal (subject to some qualifications mentioned later) is to maximize Berkshire’s average annual rate
of gain in intrinsic business value on a per-share basis. We do not measure the economic significance or performance of
Berkshire by its size; we measure by per-share progress. We are certain that the rate of per-share progress will diminish in
the future – a greatly enlarged capital base will see to that. But we will be disappointed if our rate does not exceed that of the
average large American corporation.
4.
Our preference would be to reach our goal by directly owning a diversified group of businesses that generate cash and
consistently earn above-average returns on capital. Our second choice is to own parts of similar businesses, attained
primarily through purchases of marketable common stocks by our insurance subsidiaries. The price and availability of
businesses and the need for insurance capital determine any given year’s capital allocation.
* Copyright © 1996 By Warren E. Buffett
All Rights Reserved

18

5.

6.

7.

In recent years we have made a number of acquisitions. Though there will be dry years, we expect to make many more in the
decades to come, and our hope is that they will be large. If these purchases approach the quality of those we have made in the
past, Berkshire will be well served.
The challenge for us is to generate ideas as rapidly as we generate cash. In this respect, a depressed stock market is likely to
present us with significant advantages. For one thing, it tends to reduce the prices at which entire companies become available
for purchase. Second, a depressed market makes it easier for our insurance companies to buy small pieces of wonderful
businesses – including additional pieces of businesses we already own – at attractive prices. And third, some of those same
wonderful businesses are consistent buyers of their own shares, which means that they, and we, gain from the cheaper prices
at which they can buy.
Overall, Berkshire and its long-term shareholders benefit from a sinking stock market much as a regular purchaser of food
benefits from declining food prices. So when the market plummets – as it will from time to time – neither panic nor mourn.
It’s good news for Berkshire.
Because of our two-pronged approach to business ownership and because of the limitations of conventional accounting,
consolidated reported earnings may reveal relatively little about our true economic performance. Charlie and I, both as
owners and managers, virtually ignore such consolidated numbers. However, we will also report to you the earnings of each
major business we control, numbers we consider of great importance. These figures, along with other information we will
supply about the individual businesses, should generally aid you in making judgments about them.
To state things simply, we try to give you in the annual report the numbers and other information that really matter. Charlie
and I pay a great deal of attention to how well our businesses are doing, and we also work to understand the environment in
which each business is operating. For example, is one of our businesses enjoying an industry tailwind or is it facing a
headwind? Charlie and I need to know exactly which situation prevails and to adjust our expectations accordingly. We will
also pass along our conclusions to you.
Over time, the large majority of our businesses have exceeded our expectations. But sometimes we have disappointments, and
we will try to be as candid in informing you about those as we are in describing the happier experiences. When we use
unconventional measures to chart our progress – for instance, you will be reading in our annual reports about insurance “float”
– we will try to explain these concepts and why we regard them as important. In other words, we believe in telling you how
we think so that you can evaluate not only Berkshire’s businesses but also assess our approach to management and capital
allocation.
Accounting consequences do not influence our operating or capital-allocation decisions. When acquisition costs are similar,
we much prefer to purchase $2 of earnings that is not reportable by us under standard accounting principles than to purchase
$1 of earnings that is reportable. This is precisely the choice that often faces us since entire businesses (whose earnings will
be fully reportable) frequently sell for double the pro-rata price of small portions (whose earnings will be largely
unreportable). In aggregate and over time, we expect the unreported earnings to be fully reflected in our intrinsic business
value through capital gains.
We have found over time that the undistributed earnings of our investees, in aggregate, have been fully as beneficial to
Berkshire as if they had been distributed to us (and therefore had been included in the earnings we officially report). This
pleasant result has occurred because most of our investees are engaged in truly outstanding businesses that can often employ
incremental capital to great advantage, either by putting it to work in their businesses or by repurchasing their shares.
Obviously, every capital decision that our investees have made has not benefitted us as shareholders, but overall we have
garnered far more than a dollar of value for each dollar they have retained. We consequently regard look-through earnings as
realistically portraying our yearly gain from operations.
We use debt sparingly. We will reject interesting opportunities rather than over-leverage our balance sheet. This
conservatism has penalized our results but it is the only behavior that leaves us comfortable, considering our fiduciary
obligations to policyholders, lenders and the many equity holders who have committed unusually large portions of their net
worth to our care. (As one of the Indianapolis “500” winners said: “To finish first, you must first finish.”)
The financial calculus that Charlie and I employ would never permit our trading a good night’s sleep for a shot at a few extra
percentage points of return. I’ve never believed in risking what my family and friends have and need in order to pursue what
they don’t have and don’t need.

19

8.

9.

10.

11.

Besides, Berkshire has access to two low-cost, non-perilous sources of leverage that allow us to safely own far more assets
than our equity capital alone would permit: deferred taxes and “float,” the funds of others that our insurance business holds
because it receives premiums before needing to pay out losses. Both of these funding sources have grown rapidly and now
total about $170 billion.
Better yet, this funding to date has often been cost-free. Deferred tax liabilities bear no interest. And as long as we can break
even in our insurance underwriting the cost of the float developed from that operation is zero. Neither item, of course, is
equity; these are real liabilities. But they are liabilities without covenants or due dates attached to them. In effect, they give us
the benefit of debt – an ability to have more assets working for us – but saddle us with none of its drawbacks.
Of course, there is no guarantee that we can obtain our float in the future at no cost. But we feel our chances of attaining that
goal are as good as those of anyone in the insurance business. Not only have we reached the goal in the past (despite a number
of important mistakes by your Chairman), our 1996 acquisition of GEICO, materially improved our prospects for getting there
in the future.
In our present configuration we expect additional borrowings to be concentrated in our utilities and railroad businesses, loans
that are non-recourse to Berkshire. Here, we will favor long-term, fixed-rate loans.
A managerial “wish list” will not be filled at shareholder expense. We will not diversify by purchasing entire businesses at
control prices that ignore long-term economic consequences to our shareholders. We will only do with your money what we
would do with our own, weighing fully the values you can obtain by diversifying your own portfolios through direct purchases
in the stock market.
Charlie and I are interested only in acquisitions that we believe will raise the per-share intrinsic value of Berkshire’s stock.
The size of our paychecks or our offices will never be related to the size of Berkshire’s balance sheet.
We feel noble intentions should be checked periodically against results. We test the wisdom of retaining earnings by assessing
whether retention, over time, delivers shareholders at least $1 of market value for each $1 retained. To date, this test has been
met. We will continue to apply it on a five-year rolling basis. As our net worth grows, it is more difficult to use retained
earnings wisely.
I should have written the “five-year rolling basis” sentence differently, an error I didn’t realize until I received a question
about this subject at the 2009 annual meeting.
When the stock market has declined sharply over a five-year stretch, our market-price premium to book value has sometimes
shrunk. And when that happens, we fail the test as I improperly formulated it. In fact, we fell far short as early as 1971-75,
well before I wrote this principle in 1983.
The five-year test should be: (1) during the period did our book-value gain exceed the performance of the S&P; and (2) did
our stock consistently sell at a premium to book, meaning that every $1 of retained earnings was always worth more than $1?
If these tests are met, retaining earnings has made sense.
We will issue common stock only when we receive as much in business value as we give. This rule applies to all forms of
issuance – not only mergers or public stock offerings, but stock-for-debt swaps, stock options, and convertible securities as
well. We will not sell small portions of your company – and that is what the issuance of shares amounts to – on a basis
inconsistent with the value of the entire enterprise.
When we sold the Class B shares in 1996, we stated that Berkshire stock was not undervalued – and some people found that
shocking. That reaction was not well-founded. Shock should have registered instead had we issued shares when our stock was
undervalued. Managements that say or imply during a public offering that their stock is undervalued are usually being
economical with the truth or uneconomical with their existing shareholders’ money: Owners unfairly lose if their managers
deliberately sell assets for 80¢ that in fact are worth $1. We didn’t commit that kind of crime in our offering of Class B shares
and we never will. (We did not, however, say at the time of the sale that our stock was overvalued, though many media have
reported that we did.)
You should be fully aware of one attitude Charlie and I share that hurts our financial performance: Regardless of price, we
have no interest at all in selling any good businesses that Berkshire owns. We are also very reluctant to sell sub-par
businesses as long as we expect them to generate at least some cash and as long as we feel good about their managers and
labor relations. We hope not to repeat the capital-allocation mistakes that led us into such sub-par businesses. And we react
with great caution to suggestions that our poor businesses can be restored to satisfactory profitability by major capital
expenditures. (The projections will be dazzling and the advocates sincere, but, in the end, major additional investment in a
terrible industry usually is about as rewarding as struggling in quicksand.) Nevertheless, gin rummy managerial behavior
(discard your least promising business at each turn) is not our style. We would rather have our overall results penalized a bit
than engage in that kind of behavior.

20

12.

13.

We continue to avoid gin rummy behavior. True, we closed our textile business in the mid-1980’s after 20 years of struggling
with it, but only because we felt it was doomed to run never-ending operating losses. We have not, however, given thought to
selling operations that would command very fancy prices nor have we dumped our laggards, though we focus hard on curing
the problems that cause them to lag. To clean up some confusion voiced in 2016, we emphasize that the comments here refer
to businesses we control, not to marketable securities.
We will be candid in our reporting to you, emphasizing the pluses and minuses important in appraising business value. Our
guideline is to tell you the business facts that we would want to know if our positions were reversed. We owe you no less.
Moreover, as a company with a major communications business, it would be inexcusable for us to apply lesser standards of
accuracy, balance and incisiveness when reporting on ourselves than we would expect our news people to apply when
reporting on others. We also believe candor benefits us as managers: The CEO who misleads others in public may eventually
mislead himself in private.
At Berkshire you will find no “big bath” accounting maneuvers or restructurings nor any “smoothing” of quarterly or annual
results. We will always tell you how many strokes we have taken on each hole and never play around with the scorecard.
When the numbers are a very rough “guesstimate,” as they necessarily must be in insurance reserving, we will try to be both
consistent and conservative in our approach.
We will be communicating with you in several ways. Through the annual report, I try to give all shareholders as much valuedefining information as can be conveyed in a document kept to reasonable length. We also try to convey a liberal quantity of
condensed but important information in the quarterly reports we post on the internet, though I don’t write those (one recital a
year is enough). Still another important occasion for communication is our Annual Meeting, at which Charlie and I are
delighted to spend five hours or more answering questions about Berkshire. But there is one way we can’t communicate: on a
one-on-one basis. That isn’t feasible given Berkshire’s many thousands of owners.
In all of our communications, we try to make sure that no single shareholder gets an edge: We do not follow the usual practice
of giving earnings “guidance” or other information of value to analysts or large shareholders. Our goal is to have all of our
owners updated at the same time.
Despite our policy of candor, we will discuss our activities in marketable securities only to the extent legally required. Good
investment ideas are rare, valuable and subject to competitive appropriation just as good product or business acquisition
ideas are. Therefore we normally will not talk about our investment ideas. This ban extends even to securities we have sold
(because we may purchase them again) and to stocks we are incorrectly rumored to be buying. If we deny those reports but
say “no comment” on other occasions, the no-comments become confirmation.
Though we continue to be unwilling to talk about specific stocks, we freely discuss our business and investment philosophy. I
benefitted enormously from the intellectual generosity of Ben Graham, the greatest teacher in the history of finance, and I
believe it appropriate to pass along what I learned from him, even if that creates new and able investment competitors for
Berkshire just as Ben’s teachings did for him.

TWO ADDED PRINCIPLES
14.
To the extent possible, we would like each Berkshire shareholder to record a gain or loss in market value during his period of
ownership that is proportional to the gain or loss in per-share intrinsic value recorded by the company during that holding
period. For this to come about, the relationship between the intrinsic value and the market price of a Berkshire share would
need to remain constant, and by our preferences at 1-to-1. As that implies, we would rather see Berkshire’s stock price at a
fair level than a high level. Obviously, Charlie and I can’t control Berkshire’s price. But by our policies and communications,
we can encourage informed, rational behavior by owners that, in turn, will tend to produce a stock price that is also rational.
Our it’s-as-bad-to-be-overvalued-as-to-be-undervalued approach may disappoint some shareholders. We believe, however,
that it affords Berkshire the best prospect of attracting long-term investors who seek to profit from the progress of the
company rather than from the investment mistakes of their partners.
15.
We regularly compare the gain in Berkshire’s per-share book value to the performance of the S&P 500. Over time, we hope to
outpace this yardstick. Otherwise, why do our investors need us? The measurement, however, has certain shortcomings that
are described in the next section. Moreover, it now is less meaningful on a year-to-year basis than was formerly the case. That
is because our equity holdings, whose value tends to move with the S&P 500, are a far smaller portion of our net worth than
they were in earlier years. Additionally, gains in the S&P stocks are counted in full in calculating that index, whereas gains in
Berkshire’s equity holdings are counted at 79% because of the federal tax we incur. We, therefore, expect to outperform the
S&P in lackluster years for the stock market and underperform when the market has a strong year.

21

INTRINSIC VALUE
Now let’s focus on a term that I mentioned earlier and that you will encounter in future annual reports.
Intrinsic value is an all-important concept that offers the only logical approach to evaluating the relative attractiveness of
investments and businesses. Intrinsic value can be defined simply: It is the discounted value of the cash that can be taken out of a
business during its remaining life.
The calculation of intrinsic value, though, is not so simple. As our definition suggests, intrinsic value is an estimate rather than
a precise figure, and it is additionally an estimate that must be changed if interest rates move or forecasts of future cash flows are
revised. Two people looking at the same set of facts, moreover – and this would apply even to Charlie and me – will almost inevitably
come up with at least slightly different intrinsic value figures. That is one reason we never give you our estimates of intrinsic value.
What our annual reports do supply, though, are the facts that we ourselves use to calculate this value.
Meanwhile, we regularly report our per-share book value, an easily calculable number, though one of limited use. The
limitations do not arise from our holdings of marketable securities, which are carried on our books at their current prices. Rather the
inadequacies of book value have to do with the companies we control, whose values as stated on our books may be far different from
their intrinsic values.
The disparity can go in either direction. For example, in 1964 we could state with certitude that Berkshire’s per-share book
value was $19.46. However, that figure considerably overstated the company’s intrinsic value, since all of the company’s resources
were tied up in a sub-profitable textile business. Our textile assets had neither going-concern nor liquidation values equal to their
carrying values. Today, however, Berkshire’s situation is reversed: Now, our book value far understates Berkshire’s intrinsic value, a
point true because many of the businesses we control are worth much more than their carrying value.
Inadequate though they are in telling the story, we give you Berkshire’s book-value figures because they today serve as a
rough, albeit significantly understated, tracking measure for Berkshire’s intrinsic value. In other words, the percentage change in book
value in any given year is likely to be reasonably close to that year’s change in intrinsic value.
You can gain some insight into the differences between book value and intrinsic value by looking at one form of investment, a
college education. Think of the education’s cost as its “book value.” If this cost is to be accurate, it should include the earnings that
were foregone by the student because he chose college rather than a job.
For this exercise, we will ignore the important non-economic benefits of an education and focus strictly on its economic value.
First, we must estimate the earnings that the graduate will receive over his lifetime and subtract from that figure an estimate of what he
would have earned had he lacked his education. That gives us an excess earnings figure, which must then be discounted, at an
appropriate interest rate, back to graduation day. The dollar result equals the intrinsic economic value of the education.
Some graduates will find that the book value of their education exceeds its intrinsic value, which means that whoever paid for
the education didn’t get his money’s worth. In other cases, the intrinsic value of an education will far exceed its book value, a result
that proves capital was wisely deployed. In all cases, what is clear is that book value is meaningless as an indicator of intrinsic value.
THE MANAGING OF BERKSHIRE
I think it’s appropriate that I conclude with a discussion of Berkshire’s management, today and in the future. As our first
owner-related principle tells you, Charlie and I are the managing partners of Berkshire. But we subcontract all of the heavy lifting in
this business to the managers of our subsidiaries. In fact, we delegate almost to the point of abdication: Though Berkshire has about
377,000 employees, only 26 of these are at headquarters.
Charlie and I mainly attend to capital allocation and the care and feeding of our key managers. Most of these managers are
happiest when they are left alone to run their businesses, and that is customarily just how we leave them. That puts them in charge of
all operating decisions and of dispatching the excess cash they generate to headquarters. By sending it to us, they don’t get diverted by
the various enticements that would come their way were they responsible for deploying the cash their businesses throw off.
Furthermore, Charlie and I are exposed to a much wider range of possibilities for investing these funds than any of our managers could
find in his or her own industry.
Most of our managers are independently wealthy, and it’s therefore up to us to create a climate that encourages them to
choose working with Berkshire over golfing or fishing. This leaves us needing to treat them fairly and in the manner that we would
wish to be treated if our positions were reversed.

22

As for the allocation of capital, that’s an activity both Charlie and I enjoy and in which we have acquired some useful
experience. In a general sense, grey hair doesn’t hurt on this playing field: You don’t need good hand-eye coordination or well-toned
muscles to push money around (thank heavens). As long as our minds continue to function effectively, Charlie and I can keep on doing
our jobs pretty much as we have in the past.
On my death, Berkshire’s ownership picture will change but not in a disruptive way: None of my stock will have to be sold to
take care of the cash bequests I have made or for taxes. Other assets of mine will take care of these requirements. All Berkshire shares
will be left to foundations that will likely receive the stock in roughly equal installments over a dozen or so years.
At my death, the Buffett family will not be involved in managing the business but, as very substantial shareholders, will help
in picking and overseeing the managers who do. Just who those managers will be, of course, depends on the date of my death. But I
can anticipate what the management structure will be: Essentially my job will be split into two parts. One executive will become CEO
and responsible for operations. The responsibility for investments will be given to one or more executives. If the acquisition of new
businesses is in prospect, these executives will cooperate in making the decisions needed, subject, of course, to board approval. We
will continue to have an extraordinarily shareholder-minded board, one whose interests are solidly aligned with yours.
Were we to need the management structure I have just described on an immediate basis, our directors know my
recommendations for both posts. All candidates currently work for or are available to Berkshire and are people in whom I have total
confidence. Our managerial roster has never been stronger.
I will continue to keep the directors posted on the succession issue. Since Berkshire stock will make up virtually my entire
estate and will account for a similar portion of the assets of various foundations for a considerable period after my death, you can be
sure that the directors and I have thought through the succession question carefully and that we are well prepared. You can be equally
sure that the principles we have employed to date in running Berkshire will continue to guide the managers who succeed me and that
our unusually strong and well-defined culture will remain intact. As an added assurance that this will be the case, I believe it would be
wise when I am no longer CEO to have a member of the Buffett family serve as the non-paid, non-executive Chairman of the Board.
That decision, however, will be the responsibility of the then Board of Directors.
Lest we end on a morbid note, I also want to assure you that I have never felt better. I love running Berkshire, and if enjoying
life promotes longevity, Methuselah’s record is in jeopardy.
Warren E. Buffett
Chairman

23